A : The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets. The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as also the small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter, etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed from the Greek Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the first letter (/) of the Phoenician alphabet, the equivalent of the Hebrew Aleph, and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was a consonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not an element of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to represent their vowel Alpha with the a sound, the Phoenician alphabet having no vowel symbols.
A : "In each; to or for each; as, ""twenty leagues a day"", ""a hundred pounds a year"", ""a dollar a yard"", etc."
Abaciscus : One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an abaculus.
Abaddon : Hell; the bottomless pit.
Abandon : A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.
Abase : To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to degrade.
Abate : To reduce in estimation; to deprive.
Abawed : Astonished; abashed.
Abbreviate : To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction or omission, especially of words written or spoken.
Abderian : Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.
Abdominal : Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the abdominal regions, muscles, cavity.
Abduction : A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is evident, but the minor is only probable.
Abelmosk : An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus -- moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes called musk mallow.
Abet : To support, uphold, or aid; to maintain; -- in a good sense.
Abhor : To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary or averse; -- with
Abide : To endure; to sustain; to submit to.
Abiogenesis : The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed to biogenesis.
Abjectness : The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.
Ablaqueation : The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose them to the air and water.
Ablegate : To send abroad.
Ablution : A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash the priest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then, as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunk by the priest.
Abnormity : Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity.
Abolishable : Capable of being abolished.
Aboon : and adv. Above.
Aborticide : The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.
Abortiveness : The quality of being abortive.
Above : In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath.
Abrahamic : Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamic covenant.
Abreast : Up to a certain level or line; equally advanced; as, to keep abreast of [or with] the present state of science.
Abroad : At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads its branches abroad.
Abrupt : To tear off or asunder.
Absconding : of Abscond
Absenter : One who absents one's self.
Absistence : A standing aloof.
Absolutism : Doctrine of absolute decrees.
Absorbing : of Absorb
Absorption : Entire engrossment or occupation of the mind; as, absorption in some employment.
Abstergent : Serving to cleanse, detergent.
Abstracted : of Abstract
Abstraction : The act of abstracting, separating, or withdrawing, or the state of being withdrawn; withdrawal.
Abstruseness : The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.
Abusing : of Abuse
Abusively : In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.
Abysmally : To a fathomless depth; profoundly.
Academical : Belonging to an academy or other higher institution of learning; scholarly; literary or classical, in distinction from scientific.
Acajou : The cashew tree; also, its fruit. See Cashew.
Acanthophorous : Spine-bearing.
Acaroid : Shaped like or resembling a mite.
Accede : To enter upon an office or dignity; to attain.
Accensor : One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.
Accentor : A genus of European birds (so named from their sweet notes), including the hedge warbler. In America sometimes applied to the water thrushes.
Accept : Accepted.
Accepter : An acceptor.
Accessible : Open to the influence of; -- with to.
Accidence : The accidents, of inflections of words; the rudiments of grammar.
Accipient : A receiver.
Acclimatation : Acclimatization.
Accoil : To coil together.
Accommodation : An adjustment of differences; state of agreement; reconciliation; settlement.
Accompliceship : The state of being an accomplice.
Accord : Voluntary or spontaneous motion or impulse to act; -- preceded by own; as, of one's own accord.
Accordion : A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones are generated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds.
Account : A statement and explanation or vindication of one's conduct with reference to judgment thereon.
Accountant : One who is skilled in, keeps, or adjusts, accounts; an officer in a public office, who has charge of the accounts.
Accrediting : of Accredit
Accretion : Concretion; coherence of separate particles; as, the accretion of particles so as to form a solid mass.
Accumbent : Leaning or reclining, as the ancients did at their meals.
Accurse : To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; to curse; to execrate; to anathematize.
Accuse : To charge with, or declare to have committed, a crime or offense
Accustomed : Frequented by customers.
Acephalous : Having the style spring from the base, instead of from the apex, as is the case in certain ovaries.
Acervate : Heaped, or growing in heaps, or closely compacted clusters.
Acetal : A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidation of alcohol under the influence of platinum black.
Acetometer : Same as Acetimeter.
Ache : "Continued pain, as distinguished from sudden twinges, or spasmodic pain. ""Such an ache in my bones."""
Achiever : One who achieves; a winner.
Achromatopsy : Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism.
Acidiferous : Containing or yielding an acid.
Aciform : Shaped like a needle.
Acknowledging : of Acknowledge
Acockbill : Hanging at the cathead, ready to let go, as an anchor.
Acontia : Threadlike defensive organs, composed largely of nettling cells (cnidae), thrown out of the mouth or special pores of certain Actiniae when irritated.
Acoustically : In relation to sound or to hearing.
Acquiesce : To rest satisfied, or apparently satisfied, or to rest without opposition and discontent (usually implying previous opposition or discontent); to accept or consent by silence or by omitting to object; -- followed by in, formerly also by with and to.
Acquisitive : Acquired.
Acquittance : To acquit.
Acridness : The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness; acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech.
Acroamatic : Alt. of Acroamatical
Acromegaly : Chronic enlargement of the extremities and face.
Across : Obliquely; athwart; amiss; awry.
Act : A performance of part of a play; one of the principal divisions of a play or dramatic work in which a certain definite part of the action is completed.
Actiniae : of Actinia
Actinophorous : Having straight projecting spines.
Action : An engagement between troops in war, whether on land or water; a battle; a fight; as, a general action, a partial action.
Actively : In an active signification; as, a word used actively.
Actualize : To make actual; to realize in action.
Acuate : Sharpened; sharp-pointed.
Acuminous : Characterized by acumen; keen.
Acutifoliate : Having sharp-pointed leaves.
Adamical : Of or pertaining to Adam, or resembling him.
Adaption : Adaptation.
Add : To perform the arithmetical operation of addition; as, he adds rapidly.
Addicting : of Addict
Addle : Liquid filth; mire.
Address : To aim; to direct.
Adduced : of Adduce
Adelphous : Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens; as, adelphous stamens. Usually in composition; as, monadelphous.
Adenous : Same as Adenose.
Adhamant : Clinging, as by hooks.
Adhesion : The molecular attraction exerted between bodies in contact. See Cohesion.
Adiaphorist : One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held some opinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, which Luther condemned as sinful or heretical.
Adipocerous : Like adipocere.
Adjectivally : As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.
Adjourn : To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; to postpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of the meeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting; to adjourn a debate.
Adjudication : A process by which land is attached security or in satisfaction of a debt.
Adjuration : The form of oath or appeal.
Adjutancy : The office of an adjutant.
Admeasure : The measure of a thing; dimensions; size.
Administrant : Executive; acting; managing affairs.
Admiral : A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America. The larva feeds on nettles.
Admirer : One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly.
Admittance : The act of admitting.
Admonishment : Admonition.
Adobe : An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective, as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico.
Adopted : Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son, citizen, country, word.
Adore : To adorn.
Adreamed : Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, to dream.
Adstringent : See Astringent.
Adulteration : An adulterated state or product.
Adultness : The state of being adult.
Adustion : Cauterization.
Advance : A furnishing of something before an equivalent is received (as money or goods), towards a capital or stock, or on loan; payment beforehand; the money or goods thus furnished; money or value supplied beforehand.
Advantageous : Being of advantage; conferring advantage; gainful; profitable; useful; beneficial; as, an advantageous position; trade is advantageous to a nation.
Adventure : A remarkable occurrence; a striking event; a stirring incident; as, the adventures of one's life.
Adverbially : In the manner of an adverb.
Adverted : of Advert
Advisable : Ready to receive advice.
Advocate : One who defends, vindicates, or espouses any cause by argument; a pleader; as, an advocate of free trade, an advocate of truth.
Adward : Award.
Aegilops : A genus of plants, called also hardgrass.
Aerate : To supply or impregnate with common air; as, to aerate soil; to aerate water.
Aero- : The combining form of the Greek word meaning air.
Aeromancy : Divination from the state of the air or from atmospheric substances; also, forecasting changes in the weather.
Aerostatical : Of or pertaining to aerostatics; pneumatic.
Aesthete : One who makes much or overmuch of aesthetics.
Aetiological : Pertaining to aetiology; assigning a cause.
Affatuate : To infatuate.
Affected : Given to false show; assuming or pretending to possess what is not natural or real.
Affection : Passion; violent emotion.
Afferent : Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed to efferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which convey sensations from the external organs to the brain.
Affiliation : Adoption; association or reception as a member in or of the same family or society.
Affirm : To declare or assert positively.
Affirmer : One who affirms.
Afflictedness : The state of being afflicted; affliction.
Afforcement : A fortress; a fortification for defense.
Affray : The act of suddenly disturbing any one; an assault or attack.
Affrighter : One who frightens.
Affuse : To pour out or upon.
Afloat : Moving; passing from place to place; in general circulation; as, a rumor is afloat.
Aforethought : Premeditated; prepense; previously in mind; designed; as, malice aforethought, which is required to constitute murder.
Aft : Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft.
After-dinner : The time just after dinner.
After-sails : The sails on the mizzenmast, or on the stays between the mainmast and mizzenmast.
Agains : Against; also, towards (in order to meet).
Agamic : Not having visible organs of reproduction, as flowerless plants; agamous.
Agate : A semipellucid, uncrystallized variety of quartz, presenting various tints in the same specimen. Its colors are delicately arranged in stripes or bands, or blended in clouds.
Age : A long time.
Agenesic : Characterized by sterility; infecund.
Agglomerate : Alt. of Agglomerated
Aggrace : Grace; favor.
Aggravatingly : In an aggravating manner.
Aggregation : The act of aggregating, or the state of being aggregated; collection into a mass or sum; a collection of particulars; an aggregate.
Aggroup : To bring together in a group; to group.
Agistment : Formerly, the taking and feeding of other men's cattle in the king's forests.
Agitator : One of a body of men appointed by the army, in Cromwell's time, to look after their interests; -- called also adjutators.
Agnatic : Pertaining to descent by the male line of ancestors.
Agnus : "A triple prayer in the sacrifice of the Mass, beginning with the words ""Agnus Dei."""
Agonizingly : With extreme anguish or desperate struggles.
Agrappes : Hooks and eyes for armor, etc.
Agreeability : The quality of being, or making one's self, agreeable; agreeableness.
Agricolist : A cultivator of the soil; an agriculturist.
Agronomist : One versed in agronomy; a student of agronomy.
Agued : of Ague
Ahorseback : On horseback.
Aidant : Helping; helpful; supplying aid.
Aigulet : See Aglet.
Aim : Conjecture; guess.
Air : Carriage; attitude; action; movement; as, the head of that portrait has a good air.
Airer : One who exposes to the air.
Air : A kind of pump for exhausting air from a vessel or closed space; also, a pump to condense air or force it into a closed space.
Aisle : A lateral division of a building, separated from the middle part, called the nave, by a row of columns or piers, which support the roof or an upper wall containing windows, called the clearstory wall.
Akinesia : Paralysis of the motor nerves; loss of movement.
Alackaday : An exclamation expressing sorrow.
Alarm : A summons to arms, as on the approach of an enemy.
Alated : Winged; having wings, or side appendages like wings.
Albicant : Growing or becoming white.
Albugo : Same as Leucoma.
Albuminose : A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action of natural or artificial gastric juice. See Peptone.
Alcarraza : A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids by evaporation from the exterior surface.
Alcoate : Alt. of Alcohate
Alcoholmeter : An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol, either by weight or volume. It is usually a form of hydrometer with a special scale.
Alcyonoid : Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.
Aldermanry : The district or ward of an alderman.
Alee : On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the opposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed close to the lee side.
Alertness : The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness; nimbleness; activity.
Alexandrian : Of or pertaining to Alexandria in Egypt; as, the Alexandrian library.
Alfilaria : The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.
Algebraically : By algebraic process.
Algorism : Alt. of Algorithm
Alien : Not belonging to the same country, land, or government, or to the citizens or subjects thereof; foreign; as, alien subjects, enemies, property, shores.
Aliene : To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to aliene an estate.
Align : To form in line; to fall into line.
Alinasal : Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage.
Alive : Exhibiting the activity and motion of many living beings; swarming; thronged.
Alkalimeter : An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or the quantity of alkali in a mixture.
Alkarsin : A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor, and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called also Cadel's fuming liquid.
Allantoidal : Of or pertaining to the allantois.
Allective : Allurement.
Allegorical : Belonging to, or consisting of, allegory; of the nature of an allegory; describing by resemblances; figurative.
Allemande : A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in the reign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, like those of Bach and Handel.
Alley : A passageway between rows of pews in a church.
Allheal : A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to some other plants.
Alligator : a rock breaker
Allocation : An allotment or apportionment; as, an allocation of shares in a company.
Allomerism : Variability in chemical constitution without variation in crystalline form.
Alloquy : A speaking to another; an address.
Allowed : of Allow
Allowance : A customary deduction from the gross weight of goods, different in different countries, such as tare and tret.
Alloyage : The act or art of alloying metals; also, the combination or alloy.
Allurement : That which allures; any real or apparent good held forth, or operating, as a motive to action; as, the allurements of pleasure, or of honor.
Allwork : Domestic or other work of all kinds; as, a maid of allwork, that is, a general servant.
Almagest : The celebrated work of Ptolemy of Alexandria, which contains nearly all that is known of the astronomical observations and theories of the ancients. The name was extended to other similar works.
Almighty : Unlimited in might; omnipotent; all-powerful; irresistible.
Almsgiving : The giving of alms.
Aloft : Above; on top of.
Alongside : Along or by the side; side by side with; -- often with of; as, bring the boat alongside; alongside of him; alongside of the tree.
Alpaca : A thin kind of cloth made of the wooly hair of the alpaca, often mixed with silk or with cotton.
Alpine : Of or pertaining to the Alps, or to any lofty mountain; as, Alpine snows; Alpine plants.
Altar : In the Christian church, a construction of stone, wood, or other material for the celebration of the Holy Eucharist; the communion table.
Alteration : The act of altering or making different.
Alternated : of Alternate
Alternity : Succession by turns; alternation.
Altitude : Height of degree; highest point or degree.
Aludel : One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed as to be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another in succession; -- used in the process of sublimation.
Alumni : of Alumnus
Alveoliform : Having the form of alveoli, or little sockets, cells, or cavities.
Amain : To lower the topsail, in token of surrender; to yield.
Amandine : A kind of cold cream prepared from almonds, for chapped hands, etc.
Amaryllis : A family of plants much esteemed for their beauty, including the narcissus, jonquil, daffodil, agave, and others.
Amatorially : In an amatorial manner.
Amazon : A name numerous species of South American parrots of the genus Chrysotis
Ambassage : Same as Embassage.
Ambidexter : A double-dealer; one equally ready to act on either side in party disputes.
Ambiguousness : Ambiguity.
Amble : To move somewhat like an ambling horse; to go easily or without hard shocks.
Ambrose : A sweet-scented herb; ambrosia. See Ambrosia, 3.
Ambulacra : of Ambulacrum
Amburry : Same as Anbury.
Ambushment : An ambush.
Amenable : Easy to be led; governable, as a woman by her husband.
Amendment : An alteration or change for the better; correction of a fault or of faults; reformation of life by quitting vices.
Amerce : To punish by a pecuniary penalty, the amount of which is not fixed by law, but left to the discretion of the court; as, the amerced the criminal in the sum on the hundred dollars.
Ametabolic : Alt. of Ametabolous
Amianthoid : Resembling amianthus.
Amioidei : An order of ganoid fishes of which Amia is the type. See Bowfin and Ganoidei.
Ammoniac : Alt. of Gum ammoniac
Amnestying : of Amnesty
Amoneste : To admonish.
Amorousness : The quality of being amorous, or inclined to sexual love; lovingness.
Amortize : To clear off or extinguish, as a debt, usually by means of a sinking fund.
Amove : To remove, as a person or thing, from a position.
Amphibious : Having the ability to live both on land and in water, as frogs, crocodiles, beavers, and some plants.
Amphicarpous : Producing fruit of two kinds, either as to form or time of ripening.
Amphigony : Sexual propagation.
Amphiscii : Alt. of Amphiscians
Amphoteric : Partly one and partly the other; neither acid nor alkaline; neutral.
Amplified : of Amplify
Ampulla : The vase in which the holy oil for chrism, unction, or coronation is kept.
Amulet : An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic, etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms or characters. [Also used figuratively.]
Amygdalaceous : Akin to, or derived from, the almond.
Amyloid : A non-nitrogenous starchy food; a starchlike substance.
Anabatic : Pertaining to anabasis; as, an anabatic fever.
Anachronical : Characterized by, or involving, anachronism; anachronistic.
Anadromous : Ascending rivers from the sea, at certain seasons, for breeding, as the salmon, shad, etc.
Anaglyptograph : An instrument by which a correct engraving of any embossed object, such as a medal or cameo, can be executed.
Anal : Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin or glands.
Analogical : Founded on, or of the nature of, analogy; expressing or implying analogy.
Analyse : Alt. of Analyser
Analyzer : One who, or that which, analyzes.
Anapaestic : Same as Anapest, Anapestic.
Anaptychus : One of a pair of shelly plates found in some cephalopods, as the ammonites.
Anastomozed : of Anastomose
Anatifa : An animal of the barnacle tribe, of the genus Lepas, having a fleshy stem or peduncle; a goose barnacle. See Cirripedia.
Anatomy : A treatise or book on anatomy.
Ancestress : A female ancestor.
Anchorage : The set of anchors belonging to a ship.
Anchovy : A small fish, about three inches in length, of the Herring family (Engraulis encrasicholus), caught in vast numbers in the Mediterranean, and pickled for exportation. The name is also applied to several allied species.
Ancient : An ensign or flag.
Ancon : Alt. of Ancone
Andesine : A kind of triclinic feldspar found in the Andes.
Androphagi : Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi.
Anele : To anoint.
Anemonin : An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from some species of anemone.
Anew : Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to arm anew; to create anew.
Angelhood : The state of being an angel; angelic nature.
Anger : A strong passion or emotion of displeasure or antagonism, excited by a real or supposed injury or insult to one's self or others, or by the intent to do such injury.
Angiosperm : A plant which has its seeds inclosed in a pericarp.
Angler : A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having a large, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiar appendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes within reach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish, allmouth, monkfish, etc.
Anglicization : The act of anglicizing, or making English in character.
Anglo-Saxonism : A characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race; especially, a word or an idiom of the Anglo-Saxon tongue.
Anguineous : Snakelike.
Angustate : Narrowed.
Ano : A black bird of tropical America, the West Indies and Florida (Crotophaga ani), allied to the cuckoos, and remarkable for communistic nesting.
Animadversion : Remarks by way of criticism and usually of censure; adverse criticism; reproof; blame.
Animalculist : A believer in the theory of animalculism.
Animate : To give powers to, or to heighten the powers or effect of; as, to animate a lyre.
Animosities : of Animosity
Anisopleura : A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiral shells. The two sides of the body are unequally developed.
Annalistic : Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dry annalistic style.
Annelidous : Of the nature of an annelid.
Annihilate : To reduce to nothing or nonexistence; to destroy the existence of; to cause to cease to be.
Annomination : Paronomasia; punning.
Announcer : One who announces.
Annuary : Annual.
Annulated : Of or pertaining to the Annulata.
Annumerate : To add on; to count in.
Anoil : To anoint with oil.
Anomalously : In an anomalous manner.
Anonym : "One who is anonymous; also sometimes used for ""pseudonym."""
Anosmia : Loss of the sense of smell.
Answering : of Answer
Answer : Something said or written in reply to a question, a call, an argument, an address, or the like; a reply.
Antacid : A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent.
Antalkaline : Of power to counteract alkalies.
Antasthmatic : Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma.
Antecedent : The earlier events of one's life; previous principles, conduct, course, history.
Antedate : To anticipate; to make before the true time.
Antenatal : Before birth.
Antepileptic : Good against epilepsy.
Antevert : To displace by anteversion.
Antherozoid : Alt. of Antherozooid
Anthony's : See Saint Anthony's Fire, under Saint.
Anthraconite : A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell when rubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone.
Anthropolite : A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.
Anthropomorphology : The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings.
Anthypnotic : See Antihypnotic.
Antic : Old; antique.
Antichrist : A denier or opponent of Christ. Specif.: A great antagonist, person or power, expected to precede Christ's second coming.
Anticipation : The commencing of one or more tones of a chord with or during the chord preceding, forming a momentary discord.
Anticyclone : A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regards direction of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, to that of a cyclone.
Anti-Gallican : Opposed to what is Gallic or French.
Antilithic : Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or to destroy them when formed.
Antimetabole : A figure in which the same words or ideas are repeated in transposed order.
Antinomian : One who maintains that, under the gospel dispensation, the moral law is of no use or obligation, but that faith alone is necessary to salvation. The sect of Antinomians originated with John Agricola, in Germany, about the year 1535.
Antipathic : Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic.
Antiphonal : Of or pertaining to antiphony, or alternate singing; sung alternately by a divided choir or opposite choirs.
Antipodal : Pertaining to the antipodes; situated on the opposite side of the globe.
Antipyrotic : Good against burns or pyrosis.
Antiquely : In an antique manner.
Antiscorbutic : A remedy for scurvy.
Antisplenetic : An antisplenetic medicine.
Antithetically : By way antithesis.
Antizymic : Preventing fermentation.
Antrorse : Forward or upward in direction.
Anxiety : A state of restlessness and agitation, often with general indisposition and a distressing sense of oppression at the epigastrium.
Anywhither : To or towards any place.
Apara : See Mataco.
Apaume : See Appaume.
Apertly : Openly; clearly.
Aphanitic : Resembling aphanite; having a very fine-grained structure.
Aphidophagous : Feeding upon aphides, or plant lice, as do beetles of the family Coccinellidae.
Aphrodisiac : Alt. of Aphrodisiacal
Apical : At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit.
Aplanatic : Having two or more parts of different curvatures, so combined as to remove spherical aberration; -- said of a lens.
Apocopated : Shortened by apocope; as, an apocopate form.
Apodal : Without feet; footless.
Apodixis : Full demonstration.
Apollinaris : An effervescing alkaline mineral water used as a table beverage. It is obtained from a spring in Apollinarisburg, near Bonn.
Apology : An acknowledgment intended as an atonement for some improper or injurious remark or act; an admission to another of a wrong or discourtesy done him, accompanied by an expression of regret.
Apophthegmatical : Same as Apothegmatic.
Aposiopesis : "A figure of speech in which the speaker breaks off suddenly, as if unwilling or unable to state what was in his mind; as, ""I declare to you that his conduct -- but I can not speak of that, here."""
Apostille : A marginal note on a letter or other paper; an annotation.
Apostrophize : To address by apostrophe.
Apothem : A deposit formed in a liquid extract of a vegetable substance by exposure to the air.
Appall : Terror; dismay.
Apparel : To make or get (something) ready; to prepare.
Apparitional : Pertaining to an apparition or to apparitions; spectral.
Appeal : An accusation of a felon at common law by one of his accomplices, which accomplice was then called an approver. See Approvement.
Appearance : Semblance, or apparent likeness; external show. pl. Outward signs, or circumstances, fitted to make a particular impression or to determine the judgment as to the character of a person or a thing, an act or a state; as, appearances are against him.
Appellant : One who appeals or entreats.
Append : To hang or attach to, as by a string, so that the thing is suspended; as, a seal appended to a record; the inscription was appended to the column.
Appendiculate : Having small appendages; forming an appendage.
Appetency : Fixed and strong desire; esp. natural desire; a craving; an eager appetite.
Applaud : To show approval of by clapping the hands, acclamation, or other significant sign.
Applicability : The quality of being applicable or fit to be applied.
Applier : He who, or that which, applies.
Apply : To apply or address one's self; to give application; to attend closely (to).
Appointment : "The exercise of the power of designating (under a ""power of appointment"") a person to enjoy an estate or other specific property; also, the instrument by which the designation is made."
Apposition : The state of two nouns or pronouns, put in the same case, without a connecting word between them; as, I admire Cicero, the orator. Here, the second noun explains or characterizes the first.
Appreciate : To raise the value of; to increase the market price of; -- opposed to depreciate.
Apprehender : One who apprehends.
Apprenticing : of Apprentice
Approach : To draw near, in a figurative sense; to make advances; to approximate; as, he approaches to the character of the ablest statesman.
Approbation : The act of approving; an assenting to the propriety of a thing with some degree of pleasure or satisfaction; approval; sanction; commendation.
Appropriate : To set apart for, or assign to, a particular person or use, in exclusion of all others; -- with to or for; as, a spot of ground is appropriated for a garden; to appropriate money for the increase of the navy.
Approve : To sanction officially; to ratify; to confirm; as, to approve the decision of a court-martial.
Approximately : With approximation; so as to approximate; nearly.
April : Fig.: With reference to April being the month in which vegetation begins to put forth, the variableness of its weather, etc.
Apronful : The quantity an apron can hold.
Apt : To fit; to suit; to adapt.
Aptness : Proneness; tendency; as, the aptness of iron to rust.
Aquaria : of Aquarium
Aquila : A genus of eagles.
Arabic : Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians.
Arachnidial : Pertaining to the arachnidium.
Araise : To raise.
Aration : Plowing; tillage.
Arbitrary : Depending on will or discretion; not governed by any fixed rules; as, an arbitrary decision; an arbitrary punishment.
Arborator : One who plants or who prunes trees.
Arborized : Having a treelike appearance.
Arcadian : Alt. of Arcadic
Arch : A chief.
Archaistic : Like, or imitative of, anything archaic; pertaining to an archaism.
Archduchy : The territory of an archduke or archduchess.
Archery : Archers, or bowmen, collectively.
Archierey : The higher order of clergy in Russia, including metropolitans, archbishops, and bishops.
Architect : A contriver, designer, or maker.
Archive : Public records or documents preserved as evidence of facts; as, the archives of a country or family.
Archtreasurer : A chief treasurer. Specifically, the great treasurer of the German empire.
Arcuation : The act of bending or curving; incurvation; the state of being bent; crookedness.
Arduously : In an arduous manner; with difficulty or laboriousness.
Arear : Backward; in or to the rear; behindhand.
Areolae : of Areola
Arere : See Arear.
Argentate : Silvery white.
Argillous : Argillaceous; clayey.
Argue : To invent and offer reasons to support or overthrow a proposition, opinion, or measure; to use arguments; to reason.
Argumentation : The act of forming reasons, making inductions, drawing conclusions, and applying them to the case in discussion; the operation of inferring propositions, not known or admitted as true, from facts or principles known, admitted, or proved to be true.
Aria : An air or song; a melody; a tune.
Arietate : To butt, as a ram.
Arise : To proceed; to issue; to spring.
Aristocratical : Partaking of aristocracy; befitting aristocracy; characteristic of, or originating with, the aristocracy; as, an aristocratic measure; aristocratic pride or manners.
Ark : The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, which supported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied the most sacred place in the sanctuary. In it Moses placed the two tables of stone containing the ten commandments. Called also the Ark of the Covenant.
Arm : To take by the arm; to take up in one's arms.
Armed : Furnished with whatever serves to add strength, force, or efficiency.
Armilla : A ring of hair or feathers on the legs.
Armor : Steel or iron covering, whether of ships or forts, protecting them from the fire of artillery.
Armozine : A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.
Arnicine : An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.
Arose : The past or preterit tense of Arise.
Arquebusade : The shot of an arquebus.
Arrange : To put in proper order; to dispose (persons, or parts) in the manner intended, or best suited for the purpose; as, troops arranged for battle.
Array : The whole body of persons thus placed in order; an orderly collection; hence, a body of soldiers.
Arrectary : An upright beam.
Arresting : Striking; attracting attention; impressive.
Arrival : The attainment or reaching of any object, by effort, or in natural course; as, our arrival at this conclusion was wholly unexpected.
Arrogantly : In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance.
Arrowy : Consisting of arrows.
Arsenious : Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenious powder or glass.
Art : Learning; study; applied knowledge, science, or letters.
Arteries : of Artery
Arthrodynia : An affection characterized by pain in or about a joint, not dependent upon structural disease.
Article : A particular one of various things; as, an article of merchandise; salt is a necessary article.
Articulate : Distinctly uttered; spoken so as to be intelligible; characterized by division into words and syllables; as, articulate speech, sounds, words.
Articulation : One of the parts intercepted between the joints; also, a subdivision into parts at regular or irregular intervals as a result of serial intermission in growth, as in the cane, grasses, etc.
Artificial : Cultivated; not indigenous; not of spontaneous growth; as, artificial grasses.
Artist : One who practices some mechanic art or craft; an artisan.
Artow : A contraction of art thou.
As : In the idea, character, or condition of, -- limiting the view to certain attributes or relations; as, virtue considered as virtue; this actor will appear as Hamlet.
Asbestiform : Having the form or structure of asbestus.
Ascendant : Alt. of Ascendent
Ascertain : To make (a thing) certain to the mind; to free from obscurity, doubt, or change; to make sure of; to fix; to determine.
Ascidium : A genus of simple ascidians, which formerly included most of the known species. It is sometimes used as a name for the Ascidioidea, or for all the Tunicata.
Ascription : The act of ascribing, imputing, or affirming to belong; also, that which is ascribed.
Ashen : Of or pertaining to the ash tree.
Ashtaroth : of Ashtoreth
Asininity : The quality of being asinine; stupidity combined with obstinacy.
Asker : One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer.
Asp : A small, hooded, poisonous serpent of Egypt and adjacent countries, whose bite is often fatal. It is the Naja haje. The name is also applied to other poisonous serpents, esp. to Vipera aspis of southern Europe. See Haje.
Aspen : Alt. of Asp
Asperity : Roughness or harshness of sound; that quality which grates upon the ear; raucity.
Aspersorium : The stoup, basin, or other vessel for holy water in Roman Catholic churches.
Aspic : The venomous asp.
Aspiratory : Of or pertaining to breathing; suited to the inhaling of air
Assai : A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow.
Assassin : To assassinate.
Assay : Trial; attempt; essay.
Assegai : Same as Assagai.
Assent : The act of assenting; the act of the mind in admitting or agreeing to anything; concurrence with approval; consent; agreement; acquiescence.
Assertory : Affirming; maintaining.
Assets : Property of a deceased person, subject by law to the payment of his debts and legacies; -- called assets because sufficient to render the executor or administrator liable to the creditors and legatees, so far as such goods or estate may extend.
Assiege : To besiege.
Assignment : An allotting or an appointment to a particular person or use; or for a particular time, as of a cause or causes in court.
Assimulate : To assimilate.
Assistless : Without aid or help.
Associability : The quality of being associable, or capable of association; associableness.
Associated : Joined as a companion; brought into association; accompanying; combined.
Assoilyie : To absolve; to acquit by sentence of court.
Assuaging : of Assuage
Assumed : Pretended; hypocritical; make-believe; as, an assumed character.
Assurance : Betrothal; affiance.
Asswage : See Assuage.
Asterias : A genus of echinoderms.
Asterophyllite : A fossil plant from the coal formations of Europe and America, now regarded as the branchlets and foliage of calamites.
Astound : of Astone
Astound : of Astound
Astral : Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry; starlike.
Astringing : of Astringe
Astrolatry : The worship of the stars.
Astronomy : The science which treats of the celestial bodies, of their magnitudes, motions, distances, periods of revolution, eclipses, constitution, physical condition, and of the causes of their various phenomena.
Asunder : Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two; separately; into or in different pieces or places.
Asynartete : Disconnected; not fitted or adjusted.
Ataraxy : Perfect peace of mind, or calmness.
Atelier : A workshop; a studio.
Atheneum : Alt. of Athenaeum
Athink : To repent; to displease; to disgust.
Atlanta : A genus of small glassy heteropod mollusks found swimming at the surface in mid ocean. See Heteropod.
Atmo : The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physical measurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under which the barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0  Centigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris.
Atmospherical : Dependent on the atmosphere.
Atomistic : Of or pertaining to atoms; relating to atomism.
Atonement : Satisfaction or reparation made by giving an equivalent for an injury, or by doing of suffering that which will be received in satisfaction for an offense or injury; expiation; amends; -- with for. Specifically, in theology: The expiation of sin made by the obedience, personal suffering, and death of Christ.
Atramentarious : Like ink; suitable for making ink. Sulphate of iron (copperas, green vitriol) is called atramentarious, as being used in making ink.
Atrophic : Relating to atrophy.
Attach : To take, seize, or lay hold of.
Attack : An assault upon one's feelings or reputation with unfriendly or bitter words.
Attainability : The quality of being attainable; attainableness.
Attaint : A stain or taint; disgrace. See Taint.
Attemperate : Tempered; proportioned; properly adapted.
Attend : To care for; to look after; to take charge of; to watch over.
Attendant : One who owes duty or service to, or depends on, another.
Attenuate : To make thin or less consistent; to render less viscid or dense; to rarefy. Specifically: To subtilize, as the humors of the body, or to break them into finer parts.
Attestation : The act of attesting; testimony; witness; a solemn or official declaration, verbal or written, in support of a fact; evidence. The truth appears from the attestation of witnesses, or of the proper officer. The subscription of a name to a writing as a witness, is an attestation.
Attire : Dress; clothes; headdress; anything which dresses or adorns; esp., ornamental clothing.
Attorneys : of Attorney
Attraction : The act or property of attracting; the effect of the power or operation of attraction.
Attribute : A conventional symbol of office, character, or identity, added to any particular figure; as, a club is the attribute of Hercules.
Atwite : To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid.
Aucupation : Birdcatching; fowling.
Audit : An audience; a hearing.
Auditress : A female hearer.
Augment : Enlargement by addition; increase.
Augural : Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous; significant; as, an augural staff; augural books.
Augustinian : Of or pertaining to St. Augustine, bishop of Hippo in Northern Africa (b. 354 -- d. 430), or to his doctrines.
Aumbry : Same as Ambry.
Aurate : A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate or potassium.
Auricle : An angular or ear-shaped lobe.
Auriflamme : See Oriflamme.
Aurorae : of Aurora
Auspices : of Auspice
Australasian : Of or pertaining to Australasia; as, Australasian regions.
Authenticated : of Authenticate
Authorities : of Authority
Authorizer : One who authorizes.
Autochthon : That which is original to a particular country, or which had there its origin.
Autos-da-fe : of Auto-da-fe
Autographic : Alt. of Autographical
Autonomasy : "The use of a word of common or general signification for the name of a particular thing; as, ""He has gone to town,"" for, ""He has gone to London."""
Autoschediastic : Alt. of Autoschediastical
Auxiliarly : By way of help.
Availability : That which is available.
Avast : Cease; stop; stay.
Avener : An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide oats for the horses.
Aventure : Accident; chance; adventure.
Average : In the English corn trade, the medial price of the several kinds of grain in the principal corn markets.
Averruncation : The act of averting.
Avertiment : Advertisement.
Avignon : The fruit of the Rhamnus infectorius, eand of other species of the same genus; -- so called from the city of Avignon, in France. It is used by dyers and painters for coloring yellow. Called also French berry.
Avocet : Alt. of Avoset
Avoider : The person who carries anything away, or the vessel in which things are carried away.
Avoutrer : See Advoutrer.
Avoyer : A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of Switzerland.
Awoken : of Awake
Award : The paper containing the decision of arbitrators; that which is warded.
Aweary : Weary.
Awing : On the wing; flying; fluttering.
Awning : A rooflike cover, usually of canvas, extended over or before any place as a shelter from the sun, rain, or wind.
Axial : Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; or to the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones.
Axes : of Axis
Axolotl : An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevated lakes of Mexico; the siredon.
Ayond : Beyond.
Azonic : Confined to no zone or region; not local.
Azure : To color blue.
Baal : The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitish nations.
Babbler : A hound too noisy on finding a good scent.
Babu : A Hindoo gentleman; a native clerk who writes English; also, a Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire.
Babylonian : Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or to the ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean.
Baccare : Alt. of Backare
Bacchant : Bacchanalian; fond of drunken revelry; wine-loving; reveling; carousing.
Bachelor : In the companies of London tradesmen, one not yet admitted to wear the livery; a junior member.
Back : The part opposite to, or most remote from, that which fronts the speaker or actor; or the part out of sight, or not generally seen; as, the back of an island, of a hill, or of a village.
Back : To change from one quarter to another by a course opposite to that of the sun; -- used of the wind.
Backboard : A board serving as the back part of anything, as of a wagon.
Background : The space which is behind and subordinate to a portrait or group of figures.
Backpiece : Alt. of Backplate
Backsliding : Slipping back; falling back into sin or error; sinning.
Backwards : From a better to a worse state, as from honor to shame, from religion to sin.
Backwoodsman : A man living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements, especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of the United States.
Bacule : See Bascule.
Badger : To tease or annoy, as a badger when baited; to worry or irritate persistently.
Baffled : of Baffle
Bag : To put into a bag; as, to bag hops.
Bagging : Cloth or other material for bags.
Bah : An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt.
Bail : The top or cross piece ( or either of the two cross pieces) of the wicket.
Baillie : Same as Bailie.
Bait : To flap the wings; to flutter as if to fly; or to hover, as a hawk when she stoops to her prey.
Bakery : The place for baking bread; a bakehouse.
Balancing : of Balance
Balance : A wheel which imparts regularity to the movements of any engine or machine; a fly wheel.
Bald : Destitute of the natural covering.
Baldrib : A piece of pork cut lower down than the sparerib, and destitute of fat.
Balistraria : A narrow opening, often cruciform, through which arrows might be discharged.
Balkingly : In a manner to balk or frustrate.
Ballad : To make mention of in ballads.
Ballatry : See Balladry.
Balloon : To go up or voyage in a balloon.
Ballotin : An officer who has charge of a ballot box.
Balneology : A treatise on baths; the science of bathing.
Baluster : A small column or pilaster, used as a support to the rail of an open parapet, to guard the side of a staircase, or the front of a gallery. See Balustrade.
Banned : of Ban
Band : Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of a clerical, legal, or academic dress.
Bandaging : of Bandage
Bandit : An outlaw; a brigand.
Bandy : To toss about, as from man to man; to agitate.
Bang : The short, front hair combed down over the forehead, esp. when cut squarely across; a false front of hair similarly worn.
Bank : An elevation, or rising ground, under the sea; a shoal, shelf, or shallow; as, the banks of Newfoundland.
Bank : To keep a bank; to carry on the business of a banker.
Bankrupt : Being a bankrupt or in a condition of bankruptcy; unable to pay, or legally discharged from paying, one's debts; as, a bankrupt merchant.
Banneret : A title of rank, conferred for heroic deeds, and hence, an order of knighthood; also, the person bearing such title or rank.
Bantam : A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probably brought from Bantam, a district of Java.
Baptist : One who administers baptism; -- specifically applied to John, the forerunner of Christ.
Bar : Anything which obstructs, hinders, or prevents; an obstruction; a barrier.
Bar : To fasten with a bar; as, to bar a door or gate.
Barbacan : See Barbican.
Barbarity : Cruelty; ferociousness; inhumanity.
Barbecue : A floor, on which coffee beans are sun-dried.
Barbet : A bird of the family Bucconidae, allied to the Cuckoos, having a large, conical beak swollen at the base, and bearded with five bunches of stiff bristles; the puff bird. It inhabits tropical America and Africa.
Barcon : A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean.
Bare : Threadbare; much worn.
Barehead : Having the head uncovered; as, a bareheaded girl.
Bargainer : One who makes a bargain; -- sometimes in the sense of bargainor.
Barillet : A little cask, or something resembling one.
Bark : A small beetle of many species (family Scolytidae), which in the larval state bores under or in the bark of trees, often doing great damage.
Barley-bree : Liquor made from barley; strong ale.
Barnyard : A yard belonging to a barn.
Baronetage : State or rank of a baronet.
Barraclade : A home-made woolen blanket without nap.
Barreled : of Barrel
Barricading : of Barricade
Barruly : Traversed by barrulets or small bars; -- said of the field.
Barwise : Horizontally.
Basalt : An imitation, in pottery, of natural basalt; a kind of black porcelain.
Base : Fig.: The fundamental or essential part of a thing; the essential principle; a groundwork.
Base : An apron.
Based : Wearing, or protected by, bases.
Bashyle : See Basyle.
Basil : To grind or form the edge of to an angle.
Basilisk : A lizard of the genus Basiliscus, belonging to the family Iguanidae.
Basis : The ground work the first or fundamental principle; that which supports.
Basommatophora : A group of Pulmonifera having the eyes at the base of the tentacles, including the common pond snails.
Bass : To sound in a deep tone.
Bassock : A hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.
Bastard : Abbreviated, as the half title in a page preceding the full title page of a book.
Bastinade : To bastinado.
Batting : of Bat
Bate : To remove.
Baths : of Bath
Bather : One who bathes.
Batoon : See Baton, and Baston.
Battalion : A body of troops; esp. a body of troops or an army in battle array.
Battering : of Batter
Battery : A number of coated jars (Leyden jars) so connected that they may be charged and discharged simultaneously.
Battledoor : An instrument, with a handle and a flat part covered with parchment or crossed with catgut, used to strike a shuttlecock in play; also, the play of battledoor and shuttlecock.
Bauble : The fool's club.
Bawd : To procure women for lewd purposes.
Bawrel : A kind of hawk.
Bay : A state of being obliged to face an antagonist or a difficulty, when escape has become impossible.
Bayonet : A pin which plays in and out of holes made to receive it, and which thus serves to engage or disengage parts of the machinery.
Bdelloidea : The order of Annulata which includes the leeches. See Hirudinea.
Beach : A long, curling wave rolling in from the ocean. See Comber.
Bead : A small molding of rounded surface, the section being usually an arc of a circle. It may be continuous, or broken into short embossments.
Bedesman : A poor man, supported in a beadhouse, and required to pray for the soul of its founder; an almsman.
Beak : Any process somewhat like the beak of a bird, terminating the fruit or other parts of a plant.
Beam : The pole of a carriage.
Beamless : Not emitting light.
Bear : To possess or carry, as a mark of authority or distinction; to wear; as, to bear a sword, badge, or name.
Bear : A bier.
Beard : In insects, the hairs of the labial palpi of moths and butterflies.
Bearer : One who holds a check, note, draft, or other order for the payment of money; as, pay to bearer.
Bearish : Partaking of the qualities of a bear; resembling a bear in temper or manners.
Beastlihead : Beastliness.
Beat : To move with pulsation or throbbing.
Beaten : Tried; practiced.
Beaux : of Beau
Beautify : To make or render beautiful; to add beauty to; to adorn; to deck; to grace; to embellish.
Beblood : Alt. of Bebloody
Bechic : Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough.
Beclouded : of Becloud
Bed : A mass or heap of anything arranged like a bed; as, a bed of ashes or coals.
Bed : To go to bed; to cohabit.
Bedcord : A cord or rope interwoven in a bedstead so as to support the bed.
Bedevil : To throw into utter disorder and confusion, as if by the agency of evil spirits; to bring under diabolical influence; to torment.
Bedlam : A place appropriated to the confinement and care of the insane; a madhouse.
Bedraggled : of Bedraggle
Bedsore : A sore on the back or hips caused by lying for a long time in bed.
Bedwarf : To make a dwarf of; to stunt or hinder the growth of; to dwarf.
Beef : Of, pertaining to, or resembling, beef.
Beerhouse : A house where malt liquors are sold; an alehouse.
Beetle-browed : Having prominent, overhanging brows; hence, lowering or sullen.
Beflower : To besprinkle or scatter over with, or as with, flowers.
Beforehand : In a state of anticipation ore preoccupation; in advance; -- often followed by with.
Beg : To ask earnestly for; to entreat or supplicate for; to beseech.
Beggar : One who begs; one who asks or entreats earnestly, or with humility; a petitioner.
Beghard : Alt. of Beguard
Begirt : of Begird
Begrimed : of Begrime
Behalf : Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support; defense; vindication.
Behest : To vow.
Behind : After the departure of another; as, to stay behind.
Behoove : To be necessary, fit, or suitable; to befit; to belong as due.
Bejewelling : of Bejewel
Belated : of Belate
Belcher : One who, or that which, belches.
Belfry : A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack and defense.
Belief : A persuasion of the truths of religion; faith.
Belittle : To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in a depreciatory or contemptuous way.
Bellbird : The Myzantha melanophrys of Australia.
Belligerency : The quality of being belligerent; act or state of making war; warfare.
Bellower : One who, or that which, bellows.
Bellyband : A band that passes under the belly of a horse and holds the saddle or harness in place; a girth.
Belong : To be deserved by.
Below : In some part or page following.
Belted : Marked with a band or circle; as, a belted stalk.
Bemean : To make mean; to lower.
Bemuffle : To cover as with a muffler; to wrap up.
Bench : To place on a bench or seat of honor.
Bend : Turn; purpose; inclination; ends.
Beneaped : See Neaped.
Benedictive : Tending to bless.
Beneficial : Conferring benefits; useful; profitable; helpful; advantageous; serviceable; contributing to a valuable end; -- followed by to.
Benefit : To gain advantage; to make improvement; to profit; as, he will benefit by the change.
Bengalese : A native or natives of Bengal.
Benjamin : See Benzoin.
Benthamic : Of or pertaining to Bentham or Benthamism.
Benzoin : A white crystalline substance, C14H12O2, obtained from benzoic aldehyde and some other sources.
Bepowder : To sprinkle or cover with powder; to powder.
Berain : To rain upon; to wet with rain.
Bereaver : One who bereaves.
Berhyme : To mention in rhyme or verse; to rhyme about.
Berretta : A square cap worn by ecclesiastics of the Roman Catholic Church. A cardinal's berretta is scarlet; that worn by other clerics is black, except that a bishop's is lined with green.
Berth : A place in a ship to sleep in; a long box or shelf on the side of a cabin or stateroom, or of a railway car, for sleeping in.
Besant : See Bezant.
Beseemed : of Beseem
Beshone : of Beshine
Besit : To suit; to fit; to become.
Besmut : To blacken with smut; to foul with soot.
Bespangle : To adorn with spangles; to dot or sprinkle with something brilliant or glittering.
Bespeckle : To mark with speckles or spots.
Besprinkler : One who, or that which, besprinkles.
Bestead : To put in a certain situation or condition; to circumstance; to place.
Bestowed : of Bestow
Bestrode : of Bestride
Bet : imp. & p. p. of Beat.
Bethel : A chapel for dissenters.
Betid : of Betide
Betrapped : of Betrap
Betroth : To contract to any one for a marriage; to engage or promise in order to marriage; to affiance; -- used esp. of a woman.
Bettering : of Better
Betutored : of Betutor
Bevel : To cut to a bevel angle; to slope the edge or surface of.
Bewailing : of Bewail
Bewhore : To pronounce or characterize as a whore.
Bewitching : Having power to bewitch or fascinate; enchanting; captivating; charming.
Beyond : At a place or time not yet reached; before.
Bhang : An astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves and seed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica), and chewed or smoked in the East as a means of intoxication. See Hasheesh.
Biased : of Bias
Bibcock : A cock or faucet having a bent down nozzle.
Bibliolatrist : A worshiper of books; especially, a worshiper of the Bible; a believer in its verbal inspiration.
Bibliopolar : Of or pertaining to the sale of books.
Bicameral : Consisting of, or including, two chambers, or legislative branches.
Bicho : See Jigger.
Bickern : An anvil ending in a beak or point (orig. in two beaks); also, the beak or horn itself.
Bicycle : A light vehicle having two wheels one behind the other. It has a saddle seat and is propelled by the rider's feet acting on cranks or levers.
Bid : To pray.
Bidental : Having two teeth.
Bifarious : Pointing two ways, as leaves that grow only on opposite sides of a branch; in two vertical rows.
Biformity : A double form.
Bigamy : The offense of marrying one person when already legally married to another.
Bight : A bend in a coast forming an open bay; as, the Bight of Benin.
Bijugate : Having two pairs, as of leaflets.
Bilbo : A rapier; a sword; so named from Bilbao, in Spain.
Biliary : Relating or belonging to bile; conveying bile; as, biliary acids; biliary ducts.
Biliteral : Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskrit verb.
Bill : A pickax, or mattock.
Billet : A small paper; a note; a short letter.
Bill : A person who holds a bill or acceptance.
Billsticker : One whose occupation is to post handbills or posters in public places.
Bimetallic : Of or relating to, or using, a double metallic standard (as gold and silver) for a system of coins or currency.
Bound : of Bind
Bind : A ligature or tie for grouping notes.
Binocle : A dioptric telescope, fitted with two tubes joining, so as to enable a person to view an object with both eyes at once; a double-barreled field glass or an opera glass.
Bioblast : Same as Bioplast.
Biologist : A student of biology; one versed in the science of biology.
Bipalmate : Palmately branched, with the branches again palmated.
Bipetalous : Having two petals.
Biradiate : Alt. of Biradiated
Birdbolt : Anything which smites without penetrating.
Birdman : A fowler or birdcatcher.
Biretta : Same as Berretta.
Birth : The act or fact of coming into life, or of being born; -- generally applied to human beings; as, the birth of a son.
Bis- : A form of Bi-, sometimes used before s, c, or a vowel.
Bisegment : One of tow equal parts of a line, or other magnitude.
Bishoping : of Bishop
Bisk : Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together.
Bisque : A point taken by the receiver of odds in the game of tennis; also, an extra innings allowed to a weaker player in croquet.
Bit : Fig.: Anything which curbs or restrains.
Bit : of Bite
Biter : One who, or that which, bites; that which bites often, or is inclined to bite, as a dog or fish.
Bitter : Any substance that is bitter. See Bitters.
Bittersweet : A kind of apple so called.
Bituminize : To prepare, treat, impregnate, or coat with bitumen.
Bivouacking : of Bivouac
Black : That which is destitute of light or whiteness; the darkest color, or rather a destitution of all color; as, a cloth has a good black.
Blackband : An earthy carbonate of iron containing considerable carbonaceous matter; -- valuable as an iron ore.
Black : A pestilence which ravaged Europe and Asia in the fourteenth century.
Blackguard : "The scullions and lower menials of a court, or of a nobleman's household, who, in a removal from one residence to another, had charge of the kitchen utensils, and being smutted by them, were jocularly called the ""black guard""; also, the servants and hangers-on of an army."
Black-jack : The Quercus nigra, or barren oak.
Black : Easter Monday, so called from the severity of that day in 1360, which was so unusual that many of Edward III.'s soldiers, then before Paris, died from the cold.
Blackstrap : A mixture of spirituous liquor (usually rum) and molasses.
Bladderwort : A genus (Utricularia) of aquatic or marshy plants, which usually bear numerous vesicles in the divisions of the leaves. These serve as traps for minute animals. See Ascidium.
Blague : Mendacious boasting; falsehood; humbug.
Blanching : of Blanch
Bland : Having soft and soothing qualities; not drastic or irritating; not stimulating; as, a bland oil; a bland diet.
Blank : Absolute; downright; unmixed; as, blank terror.
Blanket : To toss in a blanket by way of punishment.
Blaspheming : of Blaspheme
Blast : Hence, to affect with some sudden violence, plague, calamity, or blighting influence, which destroys or causes to fail; to visit with a curse; to curse; to ruin; as, to blast pride, hopes, or character.
Blastoderm : The germinal membrane in an ovum, from which the embryo is developed.
Blatancy : Blatant quality.
Blaze : To send forth or reflect glowing or brilliant light; to show a blaze.
Blazonry : Same as Blazon, 3.
Blear : Causing or caused by dimness of sight; dim.
Blek : To blacken; also, to defile.
Blemish : To mark with deformity; to injure or impair, as anything which is well formed, or excellent; to mar, or make defective, either the body or mind.
Blend : To mix or mingle together; esp. to mingle, combine, or associate so that the separate things mixed, or the line of demarcation, can not be distinguished. Hence: To confuse; to confound.
Blenny : A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidae; -- so called from its coating of mucus. The species are numerous.
Blessed : Beatified.
Blighting : of Blight
Blind : Having no openings for light or passage; as, a blind wall; open only at one end; as, a blind alley; a blind gut.
Blindfolding : of Blindfold
Blink : Gleam; glimmer; sparkle.
Blistered : of Blister
Bloat : A term of contempt for a worthless, dissipated fellow.
Block : A piece of hard wood (as mahogany or cherry) on which a stereotype or electrotype plate is mounted to make it type high.
Blockheaded : Stupid; dull.
Blood : The fluid which circulates in the principal vascular system of animals, carrying nourishment to all parts of the body, and bringing away waste products to be excreted. See under Arterial.
Bloodguilty : Guilty of murder or bloodshed.
Bloodstone : A green siliceous stone sprinkled with red jasper, as if with blood; hence the name; -- called also heliotrope.
Bloody : To stain with blood.
Bloom : A mass of wrought iron from the Catalan forge or from the puddling furnace, deprived of its dross, and shaped usually in the form of an oblong block by shingling.
Blossomed : of Blossom
Blot : A weak point; a failing; an exposed point or mark.
Blow : A forcible stroke with the hand, fist, or some instrument, as a rod, a club, an ax, or a sword.
Blow : To inflate, as with pride; to puff up.
Blowhole : A nostril or spiracle in the top of the head of a whale or other cetacean.
Blow : See Snifting valve.
Blue : Having the color of the clear sky, or a hue resembling it, whether lighter or darker; as, the deep, blue sea; as blue as a sapphire; blue violets.
Bluebird : A small song bird (Sialia sialis), very common in the United States, and, in the north, one of the earliest to arrive in spring. The male is blue, with the breast reddish. It is related to the European robin.
Bluegown : One of a class of paupers or pensioners, or licensed beggars, in Scotland, to whim annually on the king's birthday were distributed certain alms, including a blue gown; a beadsman.
Bluff : Rising steeply with a flat or rounded front.
Blundered : of Blunder
Blunt : Hard to impress or penetrate.
Blur : A moral stain or blot.
Blushless : Free from blushes; incapable of blushing; shameless; impudent.
Boanerges : Any declamatory and vociferous preacher or orator.
Board : To approach; to accost; to address; hence, to woo.
Boast : The cause of boasting; occasion of pride or exultation, -- sometimes of laudable pride or exultation.
Boatbill : A wading bird (Cancroma cochlearia) of the tropical parts of South America. Its bill is somewhat like a boat with the keel uppermost.
Boat-tail : A large grackle or blackbird (Quiscalus major), found in the Southern United States.
Bob : To cheat; to gain by fraud or cheating; to filch.
Bobolink : An American singing bird (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). The male is black and white; the female is brown; -- called also, ricebird, reedbird, and Boblincoln.
Boddice : See Bodick.
Bodiced : Wearing a bodice.
Bodock : The Osage orange.
Bodyguard : Retinue; attendance; following.
Bogglish : Doubtful; skittish.
Bohemian : The language of the Czechs (the ancient inhabitants of Bohemia), the richest and most developed of the dialects of the Slavic family.
Boiler : One who boils.
Boke : To poke; to thrust.
Bole : The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it.
Bollandists : "The Jesuit editors of the ""Acta Sanctorum"", or Lives of the Saints; -- named from John Bolland, who began the work."
Bolster : A plate of iron or a mass of wood under the end of a bridge girder, to keep the girder from resting directly on the abutment.
Bolt : A compact package or roll of cloth, as of canvas or silk, often containing about forty yards.
Bolt : To sift or separate the coarser from the finer particles of, as bran from flour, by means of a bolter; to separate, assort, refine, or purify by other means.
Bom : A large American serpent, so called from the sound it makes.
Bombardon : Originally, a deep-toned instrument of the oboe or bassoon family; thence, a bass reed stop on the organ. The name bombardon is now given to a brass instrument, the lowest of the saxhorns, in tone resembling the ophicleide.
Bombproof : Secure against the explosive force of bombs.
Bonbon : Sugar confectionery; a sugarplum; hence, any dainty.
Bondage : Obligation; tie of duty.
Bondswoman : See Bondwoman.
Boned : Having (such) bones; -- used in composition; as, big-boned; strong-boned.
Boning : The manuring of land with bones.
Bonnet : A roofing over the cage of a mine, to protect its occupants from objects falling down the shaft.
Bontebok : The pied antelope of South Africa (Alcelaphus pygarga). Its face and rump are white. Called also nunni.
Boodle : The whole collection or lot; caboodle.
Bookcraft : Authorship; literary skill.
Bookmaker : One who writes and publishes books; especially, one who gathers his materials from other books; a compiler.
Bookwork : Study; application to books.
Boom : "To cause to advance rapidly in price; as, to boom railroad or mining shares; to create a ""boom"" for; as to boom Mr. C. for senator."
Boor : A Dutch, German, or Russian peasant; esp. a Dutch colonist in South Africa, Guiana, etc.: a boer.
Boot : A place at the side of a coach, where attendants rode; also, a low outside place before and behind the body of the coach.
Boothy : See Bothy.
Boozy : A little intoxicated; fuddled; stupid with liquor; bousy.
Bordeaux : Pertaining to Bordeaux in the south of France.
Bordman : A bordar; a tenant in bordage.
Bore : Caliber; importance.
Boring : The act or process of one who, or that which, bores; as, the boring of cannon; the boring of piles and ship timbers by certain marine mollusks.
Boroughmonger : One who buys or sells the parliamentary seats of boroughs.
Bort : Imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments made in cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used in lapidary work.
Boskiness : Boscage; also, the state or quality of being bosky.
Bosporus : A strait or narrow sea between two seas, or a lake and a seas; as, the Bosporus (formerly the Thracian Bosporus) or Strait of Constantinople, between the Black Sea and Sea of Marmora; the Cimmerian Bosporus, between the Black Sea and Sea of Azof.
Bossy : A cow or calf; -- familiarly so called.
Botargo : A sort of cake or sausage, made of the salted roes of the mullet, much used on the coast of the Mediterranean as an incentive to drink.
Boteless : Unavailing; in vain. See Bootless.
Botocudos : A Brazilian tribe of Indians, noted for their use of poisons; -- also called Aymbores.
Bottle : A dark shade of green, like that of bottle glass.
Bottom : Of or pertaining to the bottom; fundamental; lowest; under; as, bottom rock; the bottom board of a wagon box; bottom prices.
Bouch : A mouth.
Boughty : Bending.
Boultin : One of the shafts of a clustered column.
Bouncer : A boaster; a bully.
Bound : Inclosed in a binding or cover; as, a bound volume.
Bounty : Goodness, kindness; virtue; worth.
Bourgeois : A man of middle rank in society; one of the shopkeeping class.
Bousy : Drunken; sotted; boozy.
Bow : To bend; to curve.
Bowable : Capable of being bowed or bent; flexible; easily influenced; yielding.
Bower : One who bows or bends.
Bow : The hand that holds the bow, i. e., the left hand.
Bowl : To play with bowls.
Bow : The oar used by the bowman.
Bowwow : An onomatopoetic name for a dog or its bark.
Box : To inclose in a box.
Box-iron : A hollow smoothing iron containing a heater within.
Boyish : Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy; childish; trifling; puerile.
Brace : A pair; a couple; as, a brace of ducks; now rarely applied to persons, except familiarly or with some contempt.
Brachia : See Brachium.
Brachydiagonal : The shorter of the diagonals in a rhombic prism.
Bracken : A brake or fern.
Bracteolate : Furnished with bracteoles or bractlets.
Braggart : A boaster.
Brahminism : The religion or system of doctrines of the Brahmans; the religion of Brahma.
Brail : A stock at each end of a seine to keep it stretched.
Braize : Charcoal powder; breeze.
Brake : An ancient instrument of torture.
Branches : of Branch
Branchiate : Furnished with branchiae; as, branchiate segments.
Brand : A sword, so called from its glittering or flashing brightness.
Brandishing : of Brandish
Brank : Buckwheat.
Brash : A rash or eruption; a sudden or transient fit of sickness.
Brassica : A genus of plants embracing several species and varieties differing much in appearance and qualities: such as the common cabbage (B. oleracea), broccoli, cauliflowers, etc.; the wild turnip (B. campestris); the common turnip (B. rapa); the rape or coleseed (B. napus), etc.
Bravado : Boastful and threatening behavior; a boastful menace.
Braving : A bravado; a boast.
Brawned : Brawny; strong; muscular.
Braze : To harden.
Brazil : A very heavy wood of a reddish color, imported from Brazil and other tropical countries, for cabinet-work, and for dyeing. The best is the heartwood of Caesalpinia echinata, a leguminous tree; but other trees also yield it. An inferior sort comes from Jamaica, the timber of C. Braziliensis and C. crista. This is often distinguished as Braziletto , but the better kind is also frequently so named.
Breaded : Braided
Break : To infringe or violate, as an obligation, law, or promise.
Break : To fall in business; to become bankrupt.
Breakdown : A noisy, rapid, shuffling dance engaged in competitively by a number of persons or pairs in succession, as among the colored people of the Southern United States, and so called, perhaps, because the exercise is continued until most of those who take part in it break down.
Bream : A marine sparoid fish of the genus Pagellus, and allied genera. See Sea Bream.
Breastheight : The interior slope of a fortification, against which the garrison lean in firing.
Breath : The power of respiration, and hence, life.
Breathe : To act upon by the breath; to cause to sound by breathing.
Breathless : Dead; as, a breathless body.
Breechblock : The movable piece which closes the breech of a breech-loading firearm, and resists the backward force of the discharge. It is withdrawn for the insertion of a cartridge, and closed again before the gun is fired.
Breed : To raise, as any kind of stock.
Breeze : An excited or ruffed state of feeling; a flurry of excitement; a disturbance; a quarrel; as, the discovery produced a breeze.
Brent : Alt. of Brant
Breton : A native or inhabitant of Brittany, or Bretagne, in France; also, the ancient language of Brittany; Armorican.
Breviary : A book containing the daily public or canonical prayers of the Roman Catholic or of the Greek Church for the seven canonical hours, namely, matins and lauds, the first, third, sixth, and ninth hours, vespers, and compline; -- distinguished from the missal.
Brew : To prepare by steeping and mingling; to concoct.
Bribe : A gift begged; a present.
Brick : Any oblong rectangular mass; as, a brick of maple sugar; a penny brick (of bread).
Bridal : A nuptial festival or ceremony; a marriage.
Bridge : The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of a violin, guitar, etc., serving of raise them and transmit their vibrations to the body of the instrument.
Bridle : The piece in the interior of a gun lock, which holds in place the tumbler, sear, etc.
Brief : A writ issuing from the chancery, directed to any judge ordinary, commanding and authorizing that judge to call a jury to inquire into the case, and upon their verdict to pronounce sentence.
Brigade : To form into a brigade, or into brigades.
Bright : Of brilliant color; of lively hue or appearance.
Brike : A breach; ruin; downfall; peril.
Brim : Fierce; sharp; cold. See Breme.
Brine : To sprinkle with salt or brine; as, to brine hay.
Brisk : To make or become lively; to enliven; to animate; to take, or cause to take, an erect or bold attitude; -- usually with up.
Brisure : A mark of cadency or difference.
Broach : A spit.
Broacher : One who broaches, opens, or utters; a first publisher or promoter.
Broad-brimmed : Having a broad brim.
Broadpiece : An old English gold coin, broader than a guinea, as a Carolus or Jacobus.
Brocatel : A marble, clouded and veined with white, gray, yellow, and red, in which the yellow usually prevails. It is also called Siena marble, from its locality.
Broid : To braid.
Broke : imp. & p. p. of Break.
Broker : One who transacts business for another; an agent.
Bromic : Of, pertaining to, or containing, bromine; -- said of those compounds of bromine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, bromic acid.
Bronchophony : A modification of the voice sounds, by which they are intensified and heightened in pitch; -- observed in auscultation of the chest in certain cases of intro-thoracic disease.
Bronze : To give an appearance of bronze to, by a coating of bronze powder, or by other means; to make of the color of bronze; as, to bronze plaster casts; to bronze coins or medals.
Brooding : of Brood
Broom : An implement for sweeping floors, etc., commonly made of the panicles or tops of broom corn, bound together or attached to a long wooden handle; -- so called because originally made of the twigs of the broom.
Brother : One who, or that which, resembles another in distinctive qualities or traits of character.
Brow : To bound to limit; to be at, or form, the edge of.
Brownian : Pertaining to Dr. Robert Brown, who first demonstrated (about 1827) the commonness of the motion described below.
Browse : To feed on the tender branches or shoots of shrubs or trees, as do cattle, sheep, and deer.
Bruiser : A boxer; a pugilist.
Brunt : The heat, or utmost violence, of an onset; the strength or greatest fury of any contention; as, the brunt of a battle.
Brushing : Brisk; light; as, a brushing gallop.
Brutal : Of or pertaining to a brute; as, brutal nature.
Brutely : In a rude or violent manner.
Buat : A lantern; also, the moon.
Bubbler : A fish of the Ohio river; -- so called from the noise it makes.
Bucentaur : The state barge of Venice, used by the doge in the ceremony of espousing the Adriatic.
Buck-basket : A basket in which clothes are carried to the wash.
Buckish : Dandified; foppish.
Buckler-headed : Having a head like a buckler.
Bucolic : Of or pertaining to the life and occupation of a shepherd; pastoral; rustic.
Budding : The act or process of ingrafting one kind of plant upon another stock by inserting a bud under the bark.
Buff : The color of buff; a light yellow, shading toward pink, gray, or brown.
Buffel : A small duck (Charitonetta albeola); the spirit duck, or butterball. The head of the male is covered with numerous elongated feathers, and thus appears large. Called also bufflehead.
Buffeting : A striking with the hand.
Bufo : A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads.
Buggy : A light one horse two-wheeled vehicle.
Built : of Build
Bulb : An expansion or protuberance on a stem or tube, as the bulb of a thermometer, which may be of any form, as spherical, cylindrical, curved, etc.
Bulge : To bilge, as a ship; to founder.
Bull : Taurus, the second of the twelve signs of the zodiac.
Bullate : Appearing as if blistered; inflated; puckered.
Bulletin : Any public notice or announcement, especially of news recently received.
Bullion : Uncoined gold or silver in the mass.
Bull's-eye : A lantern, with a thick glass lens on one side for concentrating the light on any object; also, the lens itself.
Bully : To act as a bully.
Bumbailiff : See Bound bailiff, under Bound, a.
Bump : "One of the protuberances on the cranium which are associated with distinct faculties or affections of the mind; as, the bump of ""veneration;"" the bump of ""acquisitiveness."""
Bunch-backed : Having a bunch on the back; crooked.
Bung : The large stopper of the orifice in the bilge of a cask.
Bunk : One of a series of berths or bed places in tiers.
Bunt : To strike or push with the horns or head; to butt; as, the ram bunted the boy.
Buoyancy : Cheerfulness; vivacity; liveliness; sprightliness; -- the opposite of heaviness; as, buoyancy of spirits.
Burden : That which is borne with labor or difficulty; that which is grievous, wearisome, or oppressive.
Bureaux : of Bureau
Burgee : A kind of small coat.
Burghmaster : An officer who directs and lays out the meres or boundaries for the workmen; -- called also bailiff, and barmaster.
Burial : The act of burying; depositing a dead body in the earth, in a tomb or vault, or in the water, usually with attendant ceremonies; sepulture; interment.
Burlesque : An ironical or satirical composition intended to excite laughter, or to ridicule anything.
Burn : To consume with fire; to reduce to ashes by the action of heat or fire; -- frequently intensified by up: as, to burn up wood.
Burner : The part of a lamp, gas fixture, etc., where the flame is produced.
Burnstickle : A stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus).
Burrow : An incorporated town. See 1st Borough.
Burschen : of Bursch
Burst : A rupture or hernia; a breach.
Bush : A thicket, or place abounding in trees or shrubs; a wild forest.
Bushelman : A tailor's assistant for repairing garments; -- called also busheler.
Bushy : Thick and spreading, like a bush.
Buskin : A similar covering for the foot and leg, made with very thick soles, to give an appearance of elevation to the stature; -- worn by tragic actors in ancient Greece and Rome. Used as a symbol of tragedy, or the tragic drama, as distinguished from comedy.
Bustoes : of Busto
But : The end; esp. the larger or thicker end, or the blunt, in distinction from the sharp, end. See 1st Butt.
Butlerage : A duty of two shillings on every tun of wine imported into England by merchant strangers; -- so called because paid to the king's butler for the king.
Butting : of Butt
Butterfish : A name given to several different fishes, in allusion to their slippery coating of mucus, as the Stromateus triacanthus of the Atlantic coast, the Epinephelus punctatus of the southern coast, the rock eel, and the kelpfish of New Zealand.
But-thorn : The common European starfish (Asterias rubens).
Buttonmold : A disk of bone, wood, or other material, which is made into a button by covering it with cloth.
Butyrometer : An instrument for determining the amount of fatty matter or butter contained in a sample of milk.
Buzz : "To sound with a ""buzz""."
By : Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.
By-law : A local or subordinate law; a private law or regulation made by a corporation for its own government.
Byss : See Byssus, n., 1.
Byway : A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside from the main one.
Cabal : Tradition; occult doctrine. See Cabala
Cabaret : a type of restaurant where liquor and dinner is served, and entertainment is provided, as by musicians, dancers, or comedians, and providing space for dancing by the patrons; -- similar to a nightclub. The term cabaret is often used in the names of such an establishment.
Cabin : A small room; an inclosed place.
Cabbiri : Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece; -- also called sons of Hephaestus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the art of working metals.
Cabob : A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so called in Turkey and Persia.
Cachalot : The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top of its head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, after death, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance called spermaceti. See Sperm whale.
Cackle : To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does.
Cacogastric : Troubled with bad digestion.
Cactaceous : Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the prickly pear is a common example.
Caddow : A jackdaw.
Cadenza : A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a piece, commonly just before the final cadence.
Caddie : A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger.
Caecal : Of or pertaining to the caecum, or blind gut.
Caesural : Of or pertaining to a caesura.
Cage : The drum on which the rope is wound in a hoisting whim.
Cairn : A rounded or conical heap of stones erected by early inhabitants of the British Isles, apparently as a sepulchral monument.
Cajoler : A flatterer; a wheedler.
Calabash : A water dipper, bottle, bascket, or other utensil, made from the dry shell of a calabash or gourd.
Calamitous : Producing, or attended with distress and misery; making wretched; wretched; unhappy.
Calcar : A hollow tube or spur at the base of a petal or corolla.
Calceiform : Shaped like a slipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper; calceolate.
Calciminer : One who calcimines.
Calcographic : Alt. of Calcographical
Calculating : Given to contrivance or forethought; forecasting; scheming; as, a cool calculating disposition.
Caledonite : A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts of Caledonia or Scotland.
Calendar : To enter or write in a calendar; to register.
Calf : The young of the cow, or of the Bovine family of quadrupeds. Also, the young of some other mammals, as of the elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, and whale.
Calicoback : The calico bass.
Calipers : An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers or compasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thickness of bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts, shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms, tubes, etc.; -- called also caliper compasses, or caliber compasses.
Calker : A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.
Call : An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as its pastor.
Callidity : Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness.
Callipers : See Calipers.
Calm : Freedom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or absence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or waves; tranquility; stillness; quiet; serenity.
Calorifere : An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially by means of hot water circulating in tubes.
Caltrap : An instrument with four iron points, so disposed that, any three of them being on the ground, the other projects upward. They are scattered on the ground where an enemy's cavalry are to pass, to impede their progress by endangering the horses' feet.
Calve : To bring forth a calf.
Calycinal : Alt. of Calycine
Cam : A projecting part of a wheel or other moving piece so shaped as to give alternate or variable motion to another piece against which it acts.
Cambist : A banker; a money changer or broker; one who deals in bills of exchange, or who is skilled in the science of exchange.
Camel : A water-tight structure (as a large box or boxes) used to assist a vessel in passing over a shoal or bar or in navigating shallow water. By admitting water, the camel or camels may be sunk and attached beneath or at the sides of a vessel, and when the water is pumped out the vessel is lifted.
Camerate : To build in the form of a vault; to arch over.
Camous : Alt. of Camoys
Campaign : The period during which a blast furnace is continuously in operation.
Campeachy : Logwood.
Camping : Lodging in a camp.
Canaanite : A zealot.
Canary : Of a pale yellowish color; as, Canary stone.
Cancel : An inclosure; a boundary; a limit.
Cancerated : of Cancerate
Candid : White.
Candleberry : A shrub (the Myrica cerifera, or wax-bearing myrtle), common in North America, the little nuts of which are covered with a greenish white wax, which was formerly, used for hardening candles; -- also called bayberry tree, bayberry, or candleberry.
Candy : To have sugar crystals form in or on; as, fruits preserved in sugar candy after a time.
Cannicula : The Dog Star; Sirius.
Canker : To infect or pollute; to corrupt.
Cannabis : A genus of a single species belonging to the order Uricaceae; hemp.
Cannonade : To attack with heavy artillery; to batter with cannon shot.
Canoe : A boat made of bark or skins, used by savages.
Canon : That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth.
Canonship : Of or pertaining to Canopus in Egypt; as, the Canopic vases, used in embalming.
Canting : of Cant
Cantalever : A bracket to support a balcony, a cornice, or the like.
Canter : To move in a canter.
Canticoy : A social gathering; usually, one for dancing.
Canton : A small community or clan.
Cantred : Alt. of Cantref
Canvass : To search thoroughly; to engage in solicitation by traversing a district; as, to canvass for subscriptions or for votes; to canvass for a book, a publisher, or in behalf of a charity; -- commonly followed by for.
Cap : Anything resembling a cap in form, position, or use
Capable : Possessing adequate power; qualified; able; fully competent; as, a capable instructor; a capable judge; a mind capable of nice investigations.
Capapie : From head to foot; at all points.
Capellane : The curate of a chapel; a chaplain.
Capias : A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body of the person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writ of capias.
Capital : Having reference to, or involving, the forfeiture of the head or life; affecting life; punishable with death; as, capital trials; capital punishment.
Capitally : In a capital manner; excellently.
Capitular : Of or pertaining to a chapter; capitulary.
Capitulum : A knoblike protuberance of any part, esp. at the end of a bone or cartilage. [See Illust. of Artiodactyla.]
Capot : To win all the tricks from, in playing at piquet.
Caprice : See Capriccio.
Capsheaf : The top sheaf of a stack of grain: (fig.) the crowning or finishing part of a thing.
Capsule : A metallic seal or cover for closing a bottle.
Caption : That part of a legal instrument, as a commission, indictment, etc., which shows where, when, and by what authority, it was taken, found, or executed.
Captive : To take prisoner; to capture.
Capita : of Caput
Caracara : A south American bird of several species and genera, resembling both the eagles and the vultures. The caracaras act as scavengers, and are also called carrion buzzards.
Carat : The weight by which precious stones and pearls are weighed.
Carbazotate : A salt of carbazotic or picric acid; a picrate.
Carbonadoes : of Carbonado
Carboxide : A compound of carbon and oxygen, as carbonyl, with some element or radical; as, potassium carboxide.
Carburization : The act, process, or result of carburizing.
Carcinosys : The affection of the system with cancer.
Carder : One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc.
Carding : A roll of wool or other fiber as it comes from the carding machine.
Care : To be anxious or solicitous; to be concerned; to have regard or interest; -- sometimes followed by an objective of measure.
Careless : Having no care; not taking ordinary or proper care; negligent; unconcerned; heedless; inattentive; unmindful; regardless.
Cargoose : A species of grebe (Podiceps crisratus); the crested grebe.
Carina : That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals, commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification
Carl : A kind of food. See citation, below.
Carminative : Expelling wind from the body; warming; antispasmodic.
Carnal-mindedness : Grossness of mind.
Carnivoracity : Greediness of appetite for flesh.
Carolling : of Carol
Carotic : Carotid; as, the carotic arteries.
Carp : To find fault with; to censure.
Carpeting : of Carpet
Carpophyll : A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of a fruit; a carpel. [See Illust. of Gymnospermous.]
Carriage : A frame or cage in which something is carried or supported; as, a bell carriage.
Carried : of Carry
Carryk : A carack.
Cartes : of Carte de visite
Cartilaginification : The act or process of forming cartilage.
Cartouch : A cantalever, console, corbel, or modillion, which has the form of a scroll of paper
Carus : Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy.
Carver : One who carves or divides meat at table.
Cascabel : The projection in rear of the breech of a cannon, usually a knob or breeching loop connected with the gun by a neck. In old writers it included all in rear of the base ring. [See Illust. of Cannon.]
Case : The matters of fact or conditions involved in a suit, as distinguished from the questions of law; a suit or action at law; a cause.
Caseous : Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualities of cheese; cheesy.
Cashierer : One who rejects, discards, or dismisses; as, a cashierer of monarchs.
Casket : A kind of burial case.
Cassican : An American bird of the genus Cassicus, allied to the starlings and orioles, remarkable for its skillfully constructed and suspended nest; the crested oriole. The name is also sometimes given to the piping crow, an Australian bird.
Cassumuniar : A pungent, bitter, aromatic, gingerlike root, obtained from the East Indies.
Cast : To fix, distribute, or allot, as the parts of a play among actors; also to assign (an actor) for a part.
Cast : The assignment of parts in a play to the actors.
Castellated : Furnished with turrets and battlements, like a castle; built in the style of a castle.
Casting : The act or process of making casts or impressions, or of shaping metal or plaster in a mold; the act or the process of pouring molten metal into a mold.
Castlet : A small castle.
Castrating : of Castrate
Casuarina : A genus of leafless trees or shrubs, with drooping branchlets of a rushlike appearance, mostly natives of Australia. Some of them are large, producing hard and heavy timber of excellent quality, called beefwood from its color.
Catabiotic : See under Force.
Catafalco : See Catafalque.
Catalpa : A genus of American and East Indian trees, of which the best know species are the Catalpa bignonioides, a large, ornamental North American tree, with spotted white flowers and long cylindrical pods, and the C. speciosa, of the Mississipi valley; -- called also Indian bean.
Cataphonics : That branch of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds; catacoustics.
Catastasis : That part of a speech, usually the exordium, in which the orator sets forth the subject matter to be discussed.
Catch : To take captive, as in a snare or net, or on a hook; as, to catch a bird or fish.
Catch : A humorous canon or round, so contrived that the singers catch up each other's words.
Catchword : Among theatrical performers, the last word of the preceding speaker, which reminds one that he is to speak next; cue.
Catechistic : Alt. of Catechistical
Catelectrode : The negative electrode or pole of a voltaic battery.
Cater : To cut diagonally.
Catharine : See catherine wheel.
Catherine : Same as Rose window and Wheel window. Called also Catherine-wheel window.
Catholicism : The state or quality of being catholic or universal; catholicity.
Catlinite : A red clay from the Upper Missouri region, used by the Indians for their pipes.
Catsos : of Catso
Caucus : To hold, or meet in, a caucus or caucuses.
Cauk : Alt. of Cauker
Causal : Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a cause or causes; expressing a cause; causative.
Causing : of Cause
Caustic : A caustic curve or caustic surface.
Caution : A careful attention to the probable effects of an act, in order that failure or harm may be avoided; prudence in regard to danger; provident care; wariness.
Cavalier : One of the court party in the time of king Charles I. as contrasted with a Roundhead or an adherent of Parliament.
Cave : To fall in or down; as, the sand bank caved. Hence (Slang), to retreat from a position; to give way; to yield in a disputed matter.
Cavicornia : A group of ruminants whose horns are hollow, and planted on a bony process of the front, as the ox.
Cavo-relievo : Cavo-rilievo.
Cayuse : An Indian pony.
Cede : To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede a fortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty.
Celature : That which is engraved.
Celestial : An inhabitant of heaven.
Cell : Same as Cella.
Cellule : A small cell.
Cement : The powder used in cementation. See Cementation, n., 2.
Cenatory : Of or pertaining to dinner or supper.
Censorial : Belonging to a censor, or to the correction of public morals.
Cent : A hundred; as, ten per cent, the proportion of ten parts in a hundred.
Centennial : Lasting or aged a hundred years.
Centre : To collect to a point; to concentrate.
Centigrade : Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundred divisions or equal parts.
Central : Alt. of Centrale
Centring : See Centring.
Centumviri : of Centumvir
Cepevorous : Feeding upon onions.
Cephalon : The head.
Cerago : Beebread.
Ceratospongiae : An order of sponges in which the skeleton consists of horny fibers. It includes all the commercial sponges.
Cerealia : Public festivals in honor of Ceres.
Cerebripetal : Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the spinal cord to the brain and so transfer sensations (centripetal impressions) from the exterior inwards.
Ceremonialness : Quality of being ceremonial.
Ceriph : One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross strokes at the top and bottom of letters.
Ceroplastic : Modeled in wax; as, a ceroplastic figure.
Certainly : Without doubt or question; unquestionably.
Certiorari : A writ issuing out of chancery, or a superior court, to call up the records of a inferior court, or remove a cause there depending, in order that the party may have more sure and speedy justice, or that errors and irregularities may be corrected. It is obtained upon complaint of a party that he has not received justice, or can not have an impartial trial in the inferior court.
Cervices : of Cervix
Cesser : a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, for two years.
Cestraciont : A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera. The posterior teeth form a pavement of bony plates for crushing shellfish. Most of the species are extinct. The Port Jackson shark and a similar one found in California are living examples.
Cetology : The description or natural history of cetaceous animals.
Chacma : A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); -- called also ursine baboon. [See Illust. of Baboon.]
Chafe : To have a feeling of vexation; to be vexed; to fret; to be irritated.
Chaffer : One who chaffs.
Chagrin : Vexation; mortification.
Chainlet : A small chain.
Chaise : A two-wheeled carriage for two persons, with a calash top, and the body hung on leather straps, or thorough-braces. It is usually drawn by one horse.
Chalcographist : An engraver on copper or brass; hence, an engraver of copper plates for printing upon paper.
Chalk : Finely prepared chalk, used as a drawing implement; also, by extension, a compound, as of clay and black lead, or the like, used in the same manner. See Crayon.
Challenge : To call, invite, or summon to answer for an offense by personal combat.
Chamade : A signal made for a parley by beat of a drum.
Chamberer : A civilian; a carpetmonger.
Chamfret : A chamfer.
Champignon : An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris).
Chance : Happening by chance; casual.
Chandler : A dealer in other commodities, which are indicated by a word prefixed; as, ship chandler, corn chandler.
Change : A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; a building appropriated for mercantile transactions.
Channel : The deeper part of a river, harbor, strait, etc., where the main current flows, or which affords the best and safest passage for vessels.
Chant : To sing or recite after the manner of a chant, or to a tune called a chant.
Chaomancy : Divination by means of appearances in the air.
Chaparral : A thicket of low evergreen oaks.
Chapel : To cause (a ship taken aback in a light breeze) so to turn or make a circuit as to recover, without bracing the yards, the same tack on which she had been sailing.
Chaplaincy : The office, position, or station of a chaplain.
Chapter : A community of canons or canonesses.
Charred : of Char
Character : To distinguish by particular marks or traits; to describe; to characterize.
Charbon : A very contagious and fatal disease of sheep, horses, and cattle. See Maligmant pustule.
Charge : To bear down upon; to rush upon; to attack.
Charge : A bearing. See Bearing, n., 8.
Charily : In a chary manner; carefully; cautiously; frugally.
Charity : Love; universal benevolence; good will.
Charm : That which exerts an irresistible power to please and attract; that which fascinates; any alluring quality.
Charneco : Alt. of Charnico
Charter : A written evidence in due form of things done or granted, contracts made, etc., between man and man; a deed, or conveyance.
Chartography : Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc.
Chase : An open hunting ground to which game resorts, and which is private properly, thus differing from a forest, which is not private property, and from a park, which is inclosed. Sometimes written chace.
Chasselas : A white grape, esteemed for the table.
Chastised : of Chastise
Chateau : A castle or a fortress in France.
Chatterer : A prater; an idle talker.
Chaussure : A foot covering of any kind.
Cheapen : To beat down the price of; to lessen the value of; to depreciate.
Cheater : An escheator.
Check : To make a stop; to pause; -- with at.
Checkered : Diversified or variegated in a marked manner, as in appearance, character, circumstances, etc.
Cheek : The side of the face below the eye.
Cheer : To cause to rejoice; to gladden; to make cheerful; -- often with up.
Cheese : The flat, circular, mucilaginous fruit of the dwarf mallow (Malva rotundifolia).
Cheiropterous : Belonging to the Cheiroptera, or Bat family.
Chelonia : An order of reptiles, including the tortoises and turtles, peculiar in having a part of the vertebrae, ribs, and sternum united with the dermal plates so as to form a firm shell. The jaws are covered by a horny beak. See Reptilia; also, Illust. in Appendix.
Chemistry : A treatise on chemistry.
Cherish : To hold dear; to embrace with interest; to indulge; to encourage; to foster; to promote; as, to cherish religious principle.
Cherub : A symbolical winged figure of unknown form used in connection with the mercy seat of the Jewish Ark and Temple.
Chessel : The wooden mold in which cheese is pressed.
Chest : A rheumatic affection of the muscles of the breast and fore legs of a horse, affecting motion and respiration.
Chevelure : A hairlike envelope.
Chevronwise : In the manner of a chevron; as, the field may be divided chevronwise.
Chiasmus : An inversion of the order of words or phrases, when repeated or subsequently referred to in a sentence
Chick : To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate.
Chide : Fig.: To be noisy about; to chafe against.
Chiefless : Without a chief or leader.
Chikara : The Indian four-horned antelope (Tetraceros quadricornis).
Childhood : The state of being a child; the time in which persons are children; the condition or time from infancy to puberty.
Chilian : A native or citizen of Chili.
Chill : To check enthusiasm or warmth of feeling of; to depress; to discourage.
Chiltern : A tract of crown land in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire, England, to which is attached the nominal office of steward. As members of Parliament cannot resign, when they wish to go out they accept this stewardship, which legally vacates their seats.
Chimera : A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having the head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon.
Chinamen : of Chinaman
Chine : Too chamfer the ends of a stave and form the chine..
Chinone : See Quinone.
Chip : Anything dried up, withered, or without flavor; -- used contemptuously.
Chirk : To cheer; to enliven; as, to chirk one up.
Chiromanist : Alt. of Chiromantist
Chirrup : To quicken or animate by chirping; to cherup.
Chit : An excrescence on the body, as a wart.
Chivalrously : In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously.
Chloralism : A morbid condition of the system resulting from excessive use of chloral.
Chlorite : The name of a group of minerals, usually of a green color and micaceous to granular in structure. They are hydrous silicates of alumina, iron, and magnesia.
Chloroplatinic : See Platinichloric.
Chockablock : Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought close together, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.
Choir : A band or organized company of singers, especially in church service.
Choke : A kind of pear that has a rough, astringent taste, and is swallowed with difficulty, or which contracts the mucous membrane of the mouth.
Choleraic : Relating to, or resulting from, or resembling, cholera.
Chomp : To chew loudly and greedily; to champ.
Chondropterygian : One of the Chondropterygii.
Chop : To do something suddenly with an unexpected motion; to catch or attempt to seize.
Chophouse : A house where chops, etc., are sold; an eating house.
Choral : A hymn tune; a simple sacred tune, sung in unison by the congregation; as, the Lutheran chorals.
Chore : A choir or chorus.
Choric : Of or pertaining to a chorus.
Chorus : A band of singers and dancers.
Choultry : See Choltry.
Chrism : Olive oil mixed with balm and spices, consecrated by the bishop on Maundy Thursday, and used in the administration of baptism, confirmation, ordination, etc.
Christendom : The whole body of Christians.
Christianize : To adopt the character or belief of a Christian; to become Christian.
Chromatically : In a chromatic manner.
Chromism : Same as Chromatism.
Chromoplastid : A protoplasmic granule of some other color than green; -- also called chromoleucite.
Chronogram : The record or inscription made by a chronograph.
Chronometric : Alt. of Chronometrical
Chrysography : The art of writing in letters of gold.
Chub-faced : Having a plump, short face.
Chuckled : of Chuckle
Chummed : of Chum
Churchdom : The institution, government, or authority of a church.
Churchwardenship : The office of a churchwarden.
Churning : The act of one who churns.
Chylous : Consisting of, or similar to, chyle.
Cicada : Any species of the genus Cicada. They are large hemipterous insects, with nearly transparent wings. The male makes a shrill sound by peculiar organs in the under side of the abdomen, consisting of a pair of stretched membranes, acted upon by powerful muscles. A noted American species (C. septendecim) is called the seventeen year locust. Another common species is the dogday cicada.
Ciceronian : Resembling Cicero in style or action; eloquent.
Cigar : A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking.
Cillosis : A spasmodic trembling of the upper eyelid.
Cinchona : A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru and adjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producing a medicinal bark of great value.
Cinematical : See Kinematic.
Cinnamene : Styrene (which was formerly called cinnamene because obtained from cinnamic acid). See Styrene.
Cipher : A character in general, as a figure or letter.
Circean : Having the characteristics of Circe, daughter of Sol and Perseis, a mythological enchantress, who first charmed her victims and then changed them to the forms of beasts; pleasing, but noxious; as, a Circean draught.
Circling : of Circle
Circuiteer : A circuiter.
Circulate : To cause to pass from place to place, or from person to person; to spread; as, to circulate a report; to circulate bills of credit.
Circumambulate : To walk round about.
Circumesophagal : Surrounding the esophagus; -- in Zool. said of the nerve commissures and ganglia of arthropods and mollusks.
Circumflexing : of Circumflex
Circumincession : The reciprocal existence in each other of the three persons of the Trinity.
Circumrotary : Alt. of Circumrotatory
Circumspection : Attention to all the facts and circumstances of a case; caution; watchfulness.
Circumstantially : In every circumstance or particular; minutely.
Circumvolant : Flying around.
Cirrhotic : Pertaining to, caused by, or affected with, cirrhosis; as, cirrhotic degeneration; a cirrhotic liver.
Cirrus : A soft tactile appendage of the mantle of many Mollusca, and of the parapodia of Annelida. Those near the head of annelids are Tentacular cirri; those of the last segment are caudal cirri.
Cistercian : Of or pertaining to the Cistercians.
Cite : To refer to or specify, as for support, proof, illustration, or confirmation.
Citizen : Having the condition or qualities of a citizen, or of citizens; as, a citizen soldiery.
City : The collective body of citizens, or inhabitants of a city.
Civillty : The state of society in which the relations and duties of a citizen are recognized and obeyed; a state of civilization.
Clacked : of Clack
Claim : To proclaim.
Clam : A kind of vise, usually of wood.
Clamminess : State of being clammy or viscous.
Clamped : of Clamp
Clangorous : Making a clangor; having a ringing, metallic sound.
Clap : To strike the hands together in applause.
Clapperclaw : To fight and scratch.
Clarifier : A vessel in which the process of clarification is conducted; as, the clarifier in sugar works.
Clary : To make a loud or shrill noise.
Claspered : Furnished with tendrils.
Classicalist : One who adheres to what he thinks the classical canons of art.
Classman : A candidate for graduation in arts who is placed in an honor class, as opposed to a passman, who is not classified.
Clause : A separate portion of a written paper, paragraph, or sentence; an article, stipulation, or proviso, in a legal document.
Clavicorn : One of the Clavicornes.
Claw : To pull, tear, or scratch with, or as with, claws or nails.
Claytonia : An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; -- sometimes called spring beauty.
Cleaning : The afterbirth of cows, ewes, etc.
Clear : Able to perceive clearly; keen; acute; penetrating; discriminating; as, a clear intellect; a clear head.
Clear : To leap or pass by, or over, without touching or failure; as, to clear a hedge; to clear a reef.
Clearing : The gross amount of the balances adjusted in the clearing house.
Cleavage : Division into laminae, like slate, with the lamination not necessarily parallel to the plane of deposition; -- usually produced by pressure.
Cleavers : A species of Galium (G. Aparine), having a fruit set with hooked bristles, which adhere to whatever they come in contact with; -- called also, goose grass, catchweed, etc.
Clematis : A genus of flowering plants, of many species, mostly climbers, having feathery styles, which greatly enlarge in the fruit; -- called also virgin's bower.
Clergy : The body of men set apart, by due ordination, to the service of God, in the Christian church, in distinction from the laity; in England, usually restricted to the ministers of the Established Church.
Clerkless : Unlearned.
Clue : That which guides or directs one in anything of a doubtful or intricate nature; that which gives a hint in the solution of a mystery.
Clicker : One who as has charge of the work of a companionship.
Cliff : A series of limestone strata found in Ohio and farther west, presenting bluffs along the rivers and valleys, formerly supposed to be of one formation, but now known to be partly Silurian and partly Devonian.
Climatize : To acclimate or become acclimated.
Climber : A bird that climbs, as a woodpecker or a parrot.
Clinging : of Cling
Clink : To give out a slight, sharp, tinkling sound.
Clinorhombic : Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to a rhombic base; monoclinic.
Clipper : A vessel with a sharp bow, built and rigged for fast sailing.
Cloaked : of Cloak
Clod : A part of the shoulder of a beef creature, or of the neck piece near the shoulder. See Illust. of Beef.
Clog : To become clogged; to become loaded or encumbered, as with extraneous matter.
Clomb : Alt. of Clomben
Close : A double bar marking the end.
Close : Uttered with a relatively contracted opening of the mouth, as certain sounds of e and o in French, Italian, and German; -- opposed to open.
Closet : A small room or apartment for retirement; a room for privacy.
Clote : The common burdock; the clotbur.
Clothier : One who sells cloth or clothes, or who makes and sells clothes.
Cloud : To overspread or hide with a cloud or clouds; as, the sky is clouded.
Cloudy : Indicating gloom, anxiety, sullenness, or ill-nature; not open or cheerful.
Clouterly : Clumsy; awkward.
Cloyed : of Cloy
Club : To pay on equal or proportionate share of a common charge or expense; to pay for something by contribution.
Clucked : of Cluck
Clumsy : Stiff or benumbed, as with cold.
Clutch : A device which is used for coupling shafting, etc., so as to transmit motion, and which may be disengaged at pleasure.
Clypeus : The frontal plate of the head of an insect.
Coach : To convey in a coach.
Coadapted : Adapted one to another; as, coadapted pulp and tooth.
Coadventure : To share in a venture.
Coagulator : That which causes coagulation.
Coalescing : of Coalesce
Coalpit : A place where charcoal is made.
Coarseness : The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; inelegance; vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, or language.
Coasting : Sliding down hill; sliding on a sled upon snow or ice.
Coaxing : of Coax
Cobbing : of Cob
Cobble : To pave with cobblestones.
Cobstone : Cobblestone.
Coccosphere : A small, rounded, marine organism, capable of braking up into coccoliths.
Cochleate : Alt. of Cochleated
Cock : To draw the hammer of (a firearm) fully back and set it for firing.
Cockboat : A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.
Cockfighting : Addicted to cockfighting.
Cockled : Inclosed in a shell.
Cockpit : In yachts and other small vessels, a space lower than the rest of the deck, which affords easy access to the cabin.
Coco : See Cocoa.
Cod : The scrotum.
Codex : A collection of canons.
Cod : The liver of the common cod and allied species.
Coelodont : One of a group of lizards having hollow teeth.
Coerce : To compel or constrain to any action; as, to coerce a man to vote for a certain candidate.
Coexecutrix : A joint executrix.
Coffer : A casket, chest, or trunk; especially, one used for keeping money or other valuables.
Coffle : A gang of negro slaves being driven to market.
Coggle : A small fishing boat.
Cognation : Relationship by blood; descent from the same original; kindred.
Cognize : To know or perceive; to recognize.
Cohabited : of Cohabit
Coherent : Sticking together; cleaving; as the parts of bodies; solid or fluid.
Cohorn : See Coehorn.
Coil : Fig.: Entanglement; toil; mesh; perplexity.
Coincide : To occur at the same time; to be contemporaneous; as, the fall of Granada coincided with the discovery of America.
Coinquination : Defilement.
Col : A short ridge connecting two higher elevations or mountains; the pass over such a ridge.
Cold : The relative absence of heat or warmth.
Coleopter : One of the Coleoptera.
Colewort : A variety of cabbage in which the leaves never form a compact head.
Collapse : To fall together suddenly, as the sides of a hollow vessel; to close by falling or shrinking together; to have the sides or parts of (a thing) fall in together, or be crushed in together; as, a flue in the boiler of a steam engine sometimes collapses.
Collar : The clavicle.
Collaterally : Side by side; by the side.
Collator : One who confers any benefit.
Collection : That which is collected
Collector : A compiler of books; one who collects scattered passages and puts them together in one book.
Collet : The flat table at the base of a brilliant. See Illust. of Brilliant.
Colligate : To bring together by colligation; to sum up in a single proposition.
Colliquate : To change from solid to fluid; to make or become liquid; to melt.
Collodiotype : A picture obtained by the collodion process; a melanotype or ambrotype.
Collow : Soot; smut. See 1st Colly.
Colly : A kind of dog. See Collie.
Colonical : Of or pertaining to husbandmen.
Colophony : Rosin.
Colorate : Colored.
Colossal : Of a size larger than heroic. See Heroic.
Colt : To horse; to get with young.
Columbia : America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given in honor of Columbus, the discoverer.
Column : A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually composed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order.
Coma : The envelope of a comet; a nebulous covering, which surrounds the nucleus or body of a comet.
Comb : The curling crest of a wave.
Combative : Disposed to engage in combat; pugnacious.
Combine : To bind; to hold by a moral tie.
Combustibleness : Combustibility.
Comedietta : A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy.
Comet-finder : Alt. of Comet- seeker
Comfortable : Serviceable; helpful.
Comicalities : of Comicality
Command : To have or to exercise direct authority; to govern; to sway; to influence; to give an order or orders.
Commandery : A district under the administration of a military commander or governor.
Commemorate : To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; to celebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event, by some act of respect or affection, intended to preserve the remembrance of the person or event; as, to commemorate the sufferings and dying love of our Savior by the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; to commemorate the Declaration of Independence by the observance of the Fourth of July.
Commend : Commendation; praise.
Commensurable : Having a common measure; capable of being exactly measured by the same number, quantity, or measure.
Commentary : A brief account of transactions or events written hastily, as if for a memorandum; -- usually in the plural; as, Caesar's Commentaries on the Gallic War.
Commigrate : To migrate together.
Commiserator : One who pities.
Commissioning : of Commission
Commit : To put in charge of a jailor; to imprison.
Commixing : of Commix
Commodore : An officer who ranks next above a captain; sometimes, by courtesy, the senior captain of a squadron. The rank of commodore corresponds with that of brigadier general in the army.
Commonalties : of Commonalty
Commonplace : To enter in a commonplace book, or to reduce to general heads.
Commoration : The act of staying or residing in a place.
Commune : The commonalty; the common people.
Communication : Intercourse by words, letters, or messages; interchange of thoughts or opinions, by conference or other means; conference; correspondence.
Community : Common possession or enjoyment; participation; as, a community of goods.
Commutual : Mutual; reciprocal; united.
Compages : A system or structure of many parts united.
Company : Guests or visitors, in distinction from the members of a family; as, to invite company to dine.
Comparative : The comparative degree of adjectives and adverbs; also, the form by which the comparative degree is expressed; as, stronger, wiser, weaker, more stormy, less windy, are all comparatives.
Comparison : A figure by which one person or thing is compared to another, or the two are considered with regard to some property or quality, which is common to them both; e.g., the lake sparkled like a jewel.
Compassing : of Compass
Compassless : Having no compass.
Compel : To force to yield; to overpower; to subjugate.
Compensating : of Compensate
Competence : Alt. of Competency
Compiling : of Compile
Complainable : That may be complained of.
Complement : Something added for ornamentation; an accessory.
Completion : State of being complete; fulfillment; accomplishment; realization.
Complexity : That which is complex; intricacy; complication.
Complication : A disease or diseases, or adventitious circumstances or conditions, coexistent with and modifying a primary disease, but not necessarily connected with it.
Complotter : One joined in a plot.
Comport : To carry; to conduct; -- with a reflexive pronoun.
Compositae : A large family of dicotyledonous plants, having their flowers arranged in dense heads of many small florets and their anthers united in a tube. The daisy, dandelion, and asters, are examples.
Compositous : Belonging to the Compositae; composite.
Compound : To modify or change by combination with some other thing or part; to mingle with something else.
Comprehensibility : The quality or state of being comprehensible; capability of being understood.
Compress : To embrace sexually.
Comprising : of Comprise
Compromit : To put to hazard, by some indiscretion; to endanger; to compromise; as, to compromit the honor or the safety of a nation.
Compulsory : Having the power of compulsion; constraining.
Computer : One who computes.
Conative : Of or pertaining to conation.
Concaveness : Hollowness; concavity.
Concede : To grant, as a right or privilege; to make concession of.
Conceiving : of Conceive
Concentrate : To bring to, or direct toward, a common center; to unite more closely; to gather into one body, mass, or force; to fix; as, to concentrate rays of light into a focus; to concentrate the attention.
Conceptibility : The quality of being conceivable; conceivableness.
Concern : To be of importance.
Concert : A musical entertainment in which several voices or instruments take part.
Conch : A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to those of the genus Strombus, which are of large size. S. gigas is the large pink West Indian conch. The large king, queen, and cameo conchs are of the genus Cassis. See Cameo.
Conchometer : An instrument for measuring shells, or the angle of their spire.
Conciliative : Conciliatory.
Conclavist : One of the two ecclesiastics allowed to attend a cardinal in the conclave.
Conclusion : The inferred proposition of a syllogism; the necessary consequence of the conditions asserted in two related propositions called premises. See Syllogism.
Concoction : Abatement of a morbid process, as a fever and return to a normal condition.
Concordance : Concord; agreement.
Concrescence : Coalescence of particles; growth; increase by the addition of particles.
Concretional : Concretionary.
Conculcate : To tread or trample under foot.
Concurrent : Acting in conjunction; agreeing in the same act or opinion; contributing to the same event or effect; cooperating.
Condemn : To pronounce to be wrong; to disapprove of; to censure.
Condensate : To condense.
Conder : One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker.
Condition : Essential quality; property; attribute.
Conditionate : To qualify by conditions; to regulate.
Condoning : of Condone
Conduct : That which carries or conveys anything; a channel; a conduit; an instrument.
Conductor : One who, or that which, conducts; a leader; a commander; a guide; a manager; a director.
Condyloma : Alt. of Condylome
Confabulatory : Of the nature of familiar talk; in the form of a dialogue.
Confecture : Same as Confiture.
Conferring : of Confer
Confervae : of Conferva
Confession : Acknowledgment of belief; profession of one's faith.
Confide : To intrust; to give in charge; to commit to one's keeping; -- followed by to.
Configured : of Configure
Confirm : To give new assurance of the truth of; to render certain; to verify; to corroborate; as, to confirm a rumor.
Confiscated : of Confiscate
Conflict : A strife for the mastery; hostile contest; battle; struggle; fighting.
Confocal : Having the same foci; as, confocal quadrics.
Conformities : of Conformity
Confrication : A rubbing together; friction.
Confused : of Confuse
Confuter : One who confutes or disproves.
Congelation : The state of being congealed.
Congest : To cause an overfullness of the blood vessels (esp. the capillaries) of an organ or part.
Conglobe : To gather into a ball; to collect into a round mass.
Congou : Alt. of Congo
Congregation : An assembly of persons; a gathering; esp. an assembly of persons met for the worship of God, and for religious instruction; a body of people who habitually so meet.
Congressional : Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress of the United States; as, congressional debates.
Conical : Of or pertaining to a cone; as, conic sections.
Conirostral : Belonging to the Conirostres.
Conjecturer : One who conjectures.
Conjugated : of Conjugate
Conjunctiva : The mucous membrane which covers the external surface of the ball of the eye and the inner surface of the lids; the conjunctival membrane.
Conjure : To practice magical arts; to use the tricks of a conjurer; to juggle; to charm.
Connaturality : Participation of the same nature; natural union or connection.
Connector : One who, or that which, connects
Connoisseurship : State of being a connoisseur.
Conoid : A solid formed by the revolution of a conic section about its axis; as, a parabolic conoid, elliptic conoid, etc.; -- more commonly called paraboloid, ellipsoid, etc.
Conquest : The acquiring of property by other means than by inheritance; acquisition.
Conscionably : Reasonably; justly.
Consecrate : To canonize; to exalt to the rank of a saint; to enroll among the gods, as a Roman emperor.
Consensus : Agreement; accord; consent.
Consequence : Importance with respect to what comes after; power to influence or produce an effect; value; moment; rank; distinction.
Conservational : Tending to conserve; preservative.
Conserve : To keep in a safe or sound state; to save; to preserve; to protect.
Considerate : Given to consideration or to sober reflection; regardful of consequences or circumstances; circumspect; careful; esp. careful of the rights, claims, and feelings of other.
Consign : To submit; to surrender or yield one's self.
Consignor : One who consigns something to another; -- opposed to consignee.
Consistently : In a consistent manner.
Consolable : Capable of receiving consolation.
Consolidate : To grow firm and hard; to unite and become solid; as, moist clay consolidates by drying.
Consonantize : To change into, or use as, a consonant.
Consound : A name applied loosely to several plants of different genera, esp. the comfrey.
Conspire : To plot; to plan; to combine for.
Constant : Remaining unchanged or invariable, as a quantity, force, law, etc.
Constipation : Act of crowding anything into a less compass, or the state of being crowded or pressed together; condensation.
Constitution : The aggregate of mental qualities; temperament.
Constrained : of Constrain
Constriction : The state of being constricted; the point where a thing is constricted; a narrowing or binding.
Constructionist : One who puts a certain construction upon some writing or instrument, as the Constitutions of the United States; as, a strict constructionist; a broad constructionist.
Consubstantially : In a consubstantial manner; with identity of substance or nature.
Consulate : The office of a consul.
Consulter : One who consults, or asks counsel or information.
Consumption : A progressive wasting away of the body; esp., that form of wasting, attendant upon pulmonary phthisis and associated with cough, spitting of blood, hectic fever, etc.; pulmonary phthisis; -- called also pulmonary consumption.
Contagiously : In a contagious manner.
Contangoes : of Contango
Contemplate : To look at on all sides or in all its bearings; to view or consider with continued attention; to regard with deliberate care; to meditate on; to study.
Contemporary : One who lives at the same time with another; as, Petrarch and Chaucer were contemporaries.
Contendent : An antagonist; a contestant.
Contention : Vehemence of endeavor; eagerness; ardor; zeal.
Contesting : of Contest
Contignation : The act or process of framing together, or uniting, as beams in a fabric.
Contingence : See Contingency.
Continuance : Uninterrupted succession; continuation; constant renewal; perpetuation; propagation.
Continue : To carry onward or extend; to prolong or produce; to add to or draw out in length.
Contortion : A twisting; a writhing; wry motion; a twist; as, the contortion of the muscles of the face.
Contracting : of Contract
Contractibleness : Contractibility.
Contradicter : one who contradicts.
Contradistinguish : To distinguish by a contrast of opposite qualities.
Contrariantly : Contrarily.
Contrary : See Contraries.
Contravention : The act of contravening; opposition; obstruction; transgression; violation.
Contributory : Contributing to the same stock or purpose; promoting the same end; bringing assistance to some joint design, or increase to some common stock; contributive.
Contrivement : Contrivance; invention; arrangement; design; plan.
Controversary : Controversial.
Contubernial : Living or messing together; familiar; in companionship.
Conusable : Cognizable; liable to be tried or judged.
Convellent : Tending to tear or pull up.
Convenient : Near at hand; easy of access.
Conventional : Based upon tradition, whether religious and historical or of artistic rules.
Conventual : Of or pertaining to a convent; monastic.
Conversation : General course of conduct; behavior.
Converse : Turned about; reversed in order or relation; reciprocal; as, a converse proposition.
Convert : To change or turn from one belief or course to another, as from one religion to another or from one party or sect to another.
Convexed : Made convex; protuberant in a spherical form.
Conveyable : Capable of being conveyed or transferred.
Convict : To prove or find guilty of an offense or crime charged; to pronounce guilty, as by legal decision, or by one's conscience.
Convincible : Capable of being confuted and disproved by argument; refutable.
Convoked : of Convoke
Convoy : The act of attending for defense; the state of being so attended; protection; escort.
Cony : An important edible West Indian fish (Epinephelus apua); the hind of Bermuda.
Cook : To prepare food for the table.
Cooling : of Cool
Coomb : A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter.
Cooperant : Operating together; as, cooperant forces.
Coordinate : To give a common action, movement, or condition to; to regulate and combine so as to produce harmonious action; to adjust; to harmonize; as, to coordinate muscular movements.
Copaiba : Alt. of Copaiva
Cope : The top part of a flask or mold; the outer part of a loam mold.
Copesmate : An associate or companion; a friend; a partner.
Copper : To cover or coat with copper; to sheathe with sheets of copper; as, to copper a ship.
Coppin : A cop of thread.
Coptic : The language of the Copts.
Copy : An imitation, transcript, or reproduction of an original work; as, a copy of a letter, an engraving, a painting, or a statue.
Copyist : A copier; a transcriber; an imitator; a plagiarist.
Cora : The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia to North Africa.
Coralline : A submarine, semicalcareous or calcareous plant, consisting of many jointed branches.
Corbel : A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving the spring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothic architecture.
Cordage : Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope or cord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes.
Cordiality : Relation to the heart.
Corduroy : To form of logs laid side by side.
Corer : That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an apple corer.
Corinthian : Of or pertaining to an amateur sailor or yachtsman; as, a corinthian race (one in which the contesting yachts must be manned by amateurs.)
Corkiness : The quality of being corky.
Corn : The various farinaceous grains of the cereal grasses used for food, as wheat, rye, barley, maize, oats.
Corneal : Pertaining to the cornea.
Cornered : 1 Having corners or angles.
Cornfloor : A thrashing floor.
Cornish : Of or pertaining to Cornwall, in England.
Cornucopia : A genus of grasses bearing spikes of flowers resembling the cornucopia in form.
Corollated : Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla.
Coronal : Of or pertaining to a corona (in any of the senses).
Coroner : An officer of the peace whose principal duty is to inquire, with the help of a jury, into the cause of any violent, sudden or mysterious death, or death in prison, usually on sight of the body and at the place where the death occurred.
Corporalities : of Corporality
Corporeality : The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence.
Corpora : of Corpus
Corrasive : Corrosive.
Corrective : That which has the power of correcting, altering, or counteracting what is wrong or injurious; as, alkalies are correctives of acids; penalties are correctives of immoral conduct.
Correlativeness : Quality of being correlative.
Correspondingly : In a corresponding manner; conformably.
Corrivation : The flowing of different streams into one.
Corrodiate : To eat away by degrees; to corrode.
Corrugent : Drawing together; contracting; -- said of the corrugator.
Corruptible : That which may decay and perish; the human body.
Corselet : Armor for the body, as, the body breastplate and backpiece taken together; -- also, used for the entire suit of the day, including breastplate and backpiece, tasset and headpiece.
Corticiferous : Producing bark or something that resembling that resembles bark.
Corvorant : See Cormorant.
Coryza : Nasal catarrh.
Cosinage : A writ to recover possession of an estate in lands, when a stranger has entered, after the death of the grandfather's grandfather, or other distant collateral relation.
Cosmographical : Of or pertaining to cosmography.
Cosmopolitism : The condition or character of a cosmopolite; disregard of national or local peculiarities and prejudices.
Costing : of Cost
Costeaning : The process by which miners seek to discover metallic lodes. It consist in sinking small pits through the superficial deposits to the solid rock, and then driving from one pit to another across the direction of the vein, in such manner as to cross all the veins between the two pits.
Costume : Such an arrangement of accessories, as in a picture, statue, poem, or play, as is appropriate to the time, place, or other circumstances represented or described.
Cotemporary : Living or being at the same time; contemporary.
Cotise : See Cottise.
Cottised : Set between two cottises, -- said of a bend; or between two barrulets, -- said of a bar or fess.
Cotyla : Alt. of Cotyle
Couch : To put into some form of language; to express; to phrase; -- used with in and under.
Couch : See Quitch grass.
Couloir : A deep gorge; a gully.
Counsel : Deliberate purpose; design; intent; scheme; plan.
Count : To number or be counted; to possess value or carry weight; hence, to increase or add to the strength or influence of some party or interest; as, every vote counts; accidents count for nothing.
Counter : A piece of metal, ivory, wood, or bone, used in reckoning, in keeping account of games, etc.
Counteractive : One who, or that which, counteracts.
Counterchanging : of Counterchange
Countercurrent : Running in an opposite direction.
Counterfeiter : One who assumes a false appearance or semblance; one who makes false pretenses.
Countermand : To revoke (a former command); to cancel or rescind by giving an order contrary to one previously given; as, to countermand an order for goods.
Countermine : To make a countermine or counterplot; to plot secretly.
Counterplot : To oppose, as another plot, by plotting; to attempt to frustrate, as a stratagem, by stratagem.
Counterrolment : A counter account. See Control.
Counterstand : Resistance; opposition; a stand against.
Counterview : An opposite or opposing view; opposition; a posture in which two persons front each other.
Countrify : To give a rural appearance to; to cause to appear rustic.
Countrywoman : A woman born, or dwelling, in the country, as opposed to the city; a woman born or dwelling in the same country with another native or inhabitant.
Coupling : of Couple
Courageous : Possessing, or characterized by, courage; brave; bold.
Course : Customary or established sequence of events; recurrence of events according to natural laws.
Coursey : A space in the galley; a part of the hatches.
Court : To play the lover; to woo; as, to go courting.
Courtesy : To treat with civility.
Courtship : The act of paying court, with the intent to solicit a favor.
Couth : Could; was able; knew or known; understood.
Covenant : An undertaking, on sufficient consideration, in writing and under seal, to do or to refrain from some act or thing; a contract; a stipulation; also, the document or writing containing the terms of agreement.
Cover : To brood or sit on; to incubate.
Cover-point : "The fielder in the games of cricket and lacrosse who supports ""point."""
Covetise : Avarice.
Cowing : of Cow
Cowberries : of Cowberry
Cowhide : A coarse whip made of untanned leather.
Cowpea : The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genus Dolichos; also, the plant itself. Many varieties are cultivated in the southern part of the United States.
Coxalgy : Pain in the hip.
Coy : To make difficulty; to be unwilling.
Crab : One of the brachyuran Crustacea. They are mostly marine, and usually have a broad, short body, covered with a strong shell or carapace. The abdomen is small and curled up beneath the body.
Crabbish : Somewhat sour or cross.
Crack : To be ruined or impaired; to fail.
Cracker : A small firework, consisting of a little powder inclosed in a thick paper cylinder with a fuse, and exploding with a sharp noise; -- often called firecracker.
Cradle : A bed or cot for a baby, oscillating on rockers or swinging on pivots; hence, the place of origin, or in which anything is nurtured or protected in the earlier period of existence; as, a cradle of crime; the cradle of liberty.
Cradling : The framework in arched or coved ceilings to which the laths are nailed.
Crag : The neck piece or scrag of mutton.
Cram : To put hastily through an extensive course of memorizing or study, as in preparation for an examination; as, a pupil is crammed by his tutor.
Cramp : to bind together; to unite.
Cranch : See Craunch.
Craniological : Of or pertaining to craniology.
Crank : Sick; infirm.
Cranny : A tool for forming the necks of bottles, etc.
Crapule : Same as Crapulence.
Crass : Gross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined.
Craunching : of Craunch
Crawfish : Alt. of Crayfish
Crayoning : of Crayon
Crazy : Inordinately desirous; foolishly eager.
Cream : To form or become covered with cream; to become thick like cream; to assume the appearance of cream; hence, to grow stiff or formal; to mantle.
Crease : One of the lines serving to define the limits of the bowler and the striker.
Creatinin : A white, crystalline, nitrogenous body closely related to creatin but more basic in its properties, formed from the latter by the action of acids, and occurring naturally in muscle tissue and in urine.
Creaturize : To make like a creature; to degrade
Credible : Capable of being credited or believed; worthy of belief; entitled to confidence; trustworthy.
Creditably : In a creditable manner; reputably; with credit.
Creekfish : The chub sucker.
Creeper : One who, or that which, creeps; any creeping thing.
Creese : A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having a serpentine blade.
Crenated : Having the margin cut into rounded teeth notches, or scallops.
Crenulation : The state of being minutely scalloped.
Crepitation : A crepitant rale.
Crescent : The emblem of the Turkish Empire, adopted after the taking of Constantinople.
Crest : A bearing worn, not upon the shield, but usually above it, or separately as an ornament for plate, liveries, and the like. It is a relic of the ancient cognizance. See Cognizance, 4.
Cretaceous : Having the qualities of chalk; abounding with chalk; chalky; as, cretaceous rocks and formations. See Chalk.
Crevasse : A deep crevice or fissure, as in embankment; one of the clefts or fissure by which the mass of a glacier is divided.
Crib : A structure or frame of timber for a foundation, or for supporting a roof, or for lining a shaft.
Crib-biting : Same as Cribbing, 4.
Cricket : To play at cricket.
Criminalness : Criminality.
Crimp : One who decoys or entraps men into the military or naval service.
Crinated : Having hair; hairy.
Crinite : Having the appearance of a tuft of hair; having a hairlike tail or train.
Criosphinx : A sphinx with the head of a ram.
Crisp : Brisk; crackling; cheerful; lively.
Crissal : Pertaining to the crissum; as, crissal feathers.
Critic : Of or pertaining to critics or criticism; critical.
Criticiser : One who criticises; a critic.
Croatian : Of or pertaining to Croatia.
Crock : Any piece of crockery, especially of coarse earthenware; an earthen pot or pitcher.
Crocose : A white crystalline sugar, metameric with glucose, obtained from the coloring matter of saffron.
Crone : An old woman; -- usually in contempt.
Crooked : of Crook
Croon : To soothe by singing softly.
Crop-eared : Having the ears cropped.
Cross : Affiction regarded as a test of patience or virtue; trial; disappointment; opposition; misfortune.
Cross : To pass from one side to the other of; to pass or move over; to traverse; as, to cross a stream.
Crossbill : A bill brought by a defendant, in an equity or chancery suit, against the plaintiff, respecting the matter in question in that suit.
Cross-examination : The interrogating or questioning of a witness by the party against whom he has been called and examined. See Examination.
Crossing : Contradiction; thwarting; obstruction.
Cross-reading : The reading of the lines of a newspaper directly across the page, instead of down the columns, thus producing a ludicrous combination of ideas.
Crosswort : A name given to several inconspicuous plants having leaves in whorls of four, as species of Crucianella, Valantia, etc.
Crotchet : To play music in measured time.
Croup : An inflammatory affection of the larynx or trachea, accompanied by a hoarse, ringing cough and stridulous, difficult breathing; esp., such an affection when associated with the development of a false membrane in the air passages (also called membranous croup). See False croup, under False, and Diphtheria.
Crow : A bird, usually black, of the genus Corvus, having a strong conical beak, with projecting bristles. It has a harsh, croaking note. See Caw.
Crowder : One who crowds or pushes.
Crown : Same as Corona.
Crowner : One who, or that which, crowns.
Crow's-foot : Same as Bird's-mouth.
Cruciation : The act of torturing; torture; torment.
Crucigerous : Bearing the cross; marked with the figure of a cross.
Cruel : Attended with cruetly; painful; harsh.
Crull : Curly; curled.
Crumpet : A kind of large, thin muffin or cake, light and spongy, and cooked on a griddle or spider.
Crupper : The buttocks or rump of a horse.
Crushed : of Crush
Crusted : of Crust
Crustation : An adherent crust; an incrustation.
Crux : Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain.
Cry : A word or phrase caught up by a party or faction and repeated for effect; as, the party cry of the Tories.
Cryptocrystalline : Indistinctly crystalline; -- applied to rocks and minerals, whose state of aggregation is so fine that no distinct particles are visible, even under the microscope.
Crystal : The regular form which a substance tends to assume in solidifying, through the inherent power of cohesive attraction. It is bounded by plane surfaces, symmetrically arranged, and each species of crystal has fixed axial ratios. See Crystallization.
Crystallize : To be converted into a crystal; to take on a crystalline form, through the action of crystallogenic or cohesive attraction.
Ctenoid : A ctenoidean.
Cubatory : Lying down; recumbent.
Cubicle : A loding room; esp., a sleeping place partitioned off from a large dormitory.
Cuckold : A West Indian plectognath fish (Ostracion triqueter).
Cucullated : Having a hoodlike crest on the head, as certain birds, mammals, and reptiles.
Cuddle : A close embrace.
Cue : To form into a cue; to braid; to twist.
Cuirassier : A soldier armed with a cuirass.
Culler : One who picks or chooses; esp., an inspector who selects wares suitable for market.
Culm : The waste of the Pennsylvania anthracite mines, consisting of fine coal, dust, etc., and used as fuel.
Culpe : Blameworthiness.
Cultivation : The art or act of cultivating; improvement for agricultural purposes or by agricultural processes; tillage; production by tillage.
Culturist : A cultivator.
Cumbersome : Burdensome or hindering, as a weight or drag; embarrassing; vexatious; cumbrous.
Cumulate : To gather or throw into a heap; to heap together; to accumulate.
Cundurango : The bark of a South American vine (Gonolobus Condurango) of the Milkweed family. It has been supposed, but erroneously, to be a cure for cancer.
Cunning : Knowledge; art; skill; dexterity.
Cupboard : To collect, as into a cupboard; to hoard.
Cupping : The operation of drawing blood to or from the surface of the person by forming a partial vacuum over the spot. Also, sometimes, a similar operation for drawing pus from an abscess.
Curacy : The office or employment of a curate.
Curb : To furnish wich a curb, as a well; also, to restrain by a curb, as a bank of earth.
Curding : of Curd
Cure : To subdue or remove by remedial means; to remedy; to remove; to heal; -- said of a malady.
Curia : The Roman See in its temporal aspects, including all the machinery of administration; -- called also curia Romana.
Curious : Exciting attention or inquiry; awakening surprise; inviting and rewarding inquisitiveness; not simple or plain; strange; rare.
Curler : One who, or that which, curls.
Currency : Fluency; readiness of utterance.
Curried : Prepared with curry; as, curried rice, fowl, etc.
Curse : Evil pronounced or invoked upon another, solemnly, or in passion; subjection to, or sentence of, divine condemnation.
Cursorial : Of or pertaining to the Cursores.
Curtain : A flag; an ensign; -- in contempt.
Curtsy : Same as Courtesy, an act of respect.
Curvet : A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legs at once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raises his hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once.
Curvirostres : A group of passerine birds, including the creepers and nuthatches.
Cushite : A descendant of Cush, the son of Ham and grandson of Noah.
Custard : A mixture of milk and eggs, sweetened, and baked or boiled.
Customable : Subject to the payment of customs; dutiable.
Cutting : of Cut
Cut : A notch, passage, or channel made by cutting or digging; a furrow; a groove; as, a cut for a railroad.
Cutgrass : A grass with leaves having edges furnished with very minute hooked prickles, which form a cutting edge; one or more species of Leersia.
Cut-out : A species of switch for changing the current from one circuit to another, or for shortening a circuit.
Cuttingly : In a cutting manner.
Cuvette : A cunette.
Cyanotic : Relating to cyanosis; affected with cyanosis; as, a cyanotic patient; having the hue caused by cyanosis; as, a cyanotic skin.
Cycle : The circle of subjects connected with the exploits of the hero or heroes of some particular period which have served as a popular theme for poetry, as the legend of Arthur and the knights of the Round Table, and that of Charlemagne and his paladins.
Cycloid : One of the Cycloidei.
Cyclosis : The circulation or movement of protoplasmic granules within a living vegetable cell.
Cylindraceous : Cylindrical, or approaching a cylindrical form.
Cymene : A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol, camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen.
Cynegetics : The art of hunting with dogs.
Cypher : See Cipher.
Cyprus : A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to, crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common, and used for mourning.
Cysticerce : Alt. of Cysticercus
Cystotomy : The act or practice of opening cysts; esp., the operation of cutting into the bladder, as for the extraction of a calculus.
Czarowitzes : of Czarowitz
Dabbling : of Dabble
Dactyl : The claw or terminal joint of a leg of an insect or crustacean.
Dactylopterous : Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially or entirely free, as in the gurnards.
Daedalous : Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.
Dagger : A short weapon used for stabbing. This is the general term: cf. Poniard, Stiletto, Bowie knife, Dirk, Misericorde, Anlace.
Daguerrean : Alt. of Daguerreian
Daimios : of Daimio
Dairy : That department of farming which is concerned in the production of milk, and its conversion into butter and cheese.
Dakoity : See Dacoit, Dacoity.
Dalmanites : Same as Dalmania.
Damage : To ocassion damage to the soudness, goodness, or value of; to hurt; to injure; to impair.
Damask : "To decorate in a way peculiar to Damascus or attributed to Damascus; particularly: (a) with flowers and rich designs, as silk; (b) with inlaid lines of gold, etc., or with a peculiar marking or ""water,"" as metal. See Damaskeen."
Damning : of Damn
Damning : That damns; damnable; as, damning evidence of guilt.
Dampen : To become damp; to deaden.
Dance : To move with measured steps, or to a musical accompaniment; to go through, either alone or in company with others, with a regulated succession of movements, (commonly) to the sound of music; to trip or leap rhythmically.
Dandiprat : A little fellow; -- in sport or contempt.
Dandyling : A little or insignificant dandy; a contemptible fop.
Dangled : of Dangle
Dantesque : Dantelike; Dantean.
Darbies : Manacles; handcuffs.
Dare-deviltry : Reckless mischief; the action of a dare-devil.
Darkened : of Darken
Darkness : A state of ignorance or error, especially on moral or religious subjects; hence, wickedness; impurity.
Darrain : To make ready to fight; to array.
Dartoid : Like the dartos; dartoic; as, dartoid tissue.
Dash : A slight admixture, infusion, or adulteration; a partial overspreading; as, wine with a dash of water; red with a dash of purple.
Dastard : Meanly shrinking from danger; cowardly; dastardly.
Datary : The office or employment of a datary.
Datolite : A borosilicate of lime commonly occuring in glassy,, greenish crystals.
Daubery : Alt. of Daubry
Daunting : of Daunt
Daw : To daunt; to terrify.
Day : The period of the earth's revolution on its axis. -- ordinarily divided into twenty-four hours. It is measured by the interval between two successive transits of a celestial body over the same meridian, and takes a specific name from that of the body. Thus, if this is the sun, the day (the interval between two successive transits of the sun's center over the same meridian) is called a solar day; if it is a star, a sidereal day; if it is the moon, a lunar day. See Civil day, Sidereal day, below.
Day-net : A net for catching small birds.
Dazzlement : Dazzling flash, glare, or burst of light.
Dead : Monotonous or unvaried; as, a dead level or pain; a dead wall.
Deaden : To make vapid or spiritless; as, to deaden wine.
Deadly : In an implacable manner; destructively.
Deafening : The act or process of rendering impervious to sound, as a floor or wall; also, the material with which the spaces are filled in this process; pugging.
Deal : To conduct one's self; to behave or act in any affair or towards any one; to treat.
Deanery : The residence of a dean.
Dearly : Exquisitely.
Deathbird : Tengmalm's or Richardson's owl (Nyctale Tengmalmi); -- so called from a superstition of the North American Indians that its note presages death.
Deauration : Act of gilding.
Debaser : One who, or that which, debases.
Debauch : To lead away from purity or excellence; to corrupt in character or principles; to mar; to vitiate; to pollute; to seduce; as, to debauch one's self by intemperance; to debauch a woman; to debauch an army.
Debentured : Entitled to drawback or debenture; as, debentured goods.
Debonairness : The quality of being debonair; good humor; gentleness; courtesy.
Deburse : To disburse.
Decagram : Alt. of Decagramme
Decameron : A celebrated collection of tales, supposed to be related in ten days; -- written in the 14th century, by Boccaccio, an Italian.
Decanter : A vessel used to decant liquors, or for receiving decanted liquors; a kind of glass bottle used for holding wine or other liquors, from which drinking glasses are filled.
Decarburize : To deprive of carbon; to remove the carbon from.
Deceased : of Decease
Deceived : of Deceive
Decemvirship : The office of a decemvir.
Decentralization : The action of decentralizing, or the state of being decentralized.
Decertation : Contest for mastery; contention; strife.
Deciduate : Possessed of, or characterized by, a decidua.
Decimating : of Decimate
Decipherer : One who deciphers.
Deck : The floorlike covering of the horizontal sections, or compartments, of a ship. Small vessels have only one deck; larger ships have two or three decks.
Declamator : A declaimer.
Declare : To make a declaration, or an open and explicit avowal; to proclaim one's self; -- often with for or against; as, victory declares against the allies.
Declination : The angular distance of any object from the celestial equator, either northward or southward.
Decline : A gradual sinking and wasting away of the physical faculties; any wasting disease, esp. pulmonary consumption; as, to die of a decline.
Decollating : of Decollate
Decomposite : Compounded more than once; compounded with things already composite.
Decorating : of Decorate
Decoy : A fowl, or the likeness of one, used by sportsmen to entice other fowl into a net or within shot.
Decreed : of Decree
Decrescendo : With decreasing volume of sound; -- a direction to performers, either written upon the staff (abbreviated Dec., or Decresc.), or indicated by the sign.
Decrying : of Decry
Decurrent : Extending downward; -- said of a leaf whose base extends downward and forms a wing along the stem.
Decylic : Allied to, or containing, the radical decyl.
Dedicatorial : Dedicatory.
Deduct : To lead forth or out.
Deed : Performance; -- followed by of.
Deep : Strongly colored; dark; intense; not light or thin; as, deep blue or crimson.
Deep-mouthed : Having a loud and sonorous voice.
Deess : A goddess.
Defalcator : A defaulter or embezzler.
Defaulting : of Default
Defeat : An undoing or annulling; destruction.
Defectibility : Deficiency; imperfection.
Defendant : One who defends; a defender.
Defensive : Serving to defend or protect; proper for defense; opposed to offensive; as, defensive armor.
Deferential : Expressing deference; accustomed to defer.
Deficit : Deficiency in amount or quality; a falling short; lack; as, a deficit in taxes, revenue, etc.
Defilement : The act of defiling, or state of being defiled, whether physically or morally; pollution; foulness; dirtiness; uncleanness.
Definition : The act of defining; determination of the limits; as, a telescope accurate in definition.
Deflagration : A burning up; conflagration.
Deflexion : See Deflection.
Defoliated : Deprived of leaves, as by their natural fall.
Deformed : Unnatural or distorted in form; having a deformity; misshapen; disfigured; as, a deformed person; a deformed head.
Defrayment : Payment of charges.
Degener : To degenerate.
Deglutinated : of Deglutinate
Degraded : Having the typical characters or organs in a partially developed condition, or lacking certain parts.
Dehiscence : The act of gaping.
Dehydration : The act or process of freeing from water; also, the condition of a body from which the water has been removed.
Deigned : of Deign
Deistical : Pertaining to, savoring of, or consisting in, deism; as, a deistic writer; a deistical book.
Dejection : Faeces; excrement.
Delaine : A kind of fabric for women's dresses.
Delays : of Delay
Delectation : Great pleasure; delight.
Delete : To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit.
Deliberating : of Deliberate
Delicacy : Addiction to pleasure; luxury; daintiness; indulgence; luxurious or voluptuous treatment.
Delicately : In a delicate manner.
Delighted : Endowed with delight.
Delineation : The act of representing, portraying, or describing, as by lines, diagrams, sketches, etc.; drawing an outline; as, the delineation of a scene or face; in drawing and engraving, representation by means of lines, as distinguished from representation by means of tints and shades; accurate and minute representation, as distinguished from art that is careless of details, or subordinates them excessively.
Deliquescent : Branching so that the stem is lost in branches, as in most deciduous trees.
Delitescence : Concealment; seclusion; retirement.
Deliverance : Act of speaking; utterance.
Deloo : The duykerbok.
Deltafication : The formation of a delta or of deltas.
Delusion : The act of deluding; deception; a misleading of the mind.
Demagogy : Demagogism.
Demandress : A woman who demands.
Demeanor : Management; treatment; conduct.
Demerit : To deserve praise or blame.
Demigorge : Half the gorge, or entrance into a bastion, taken from the angle of the flank to the center of the bastion.
Demisable : Capable of being leased; as, a demisable estate.
Demit : To let fall; to depress.
Democrat : One who is an adherent or advocate of democracy, or government by the people.
Demolishment : Demolition.
Demonic : Of or pertaining to a demon or to demons; demoniac.
Demonship : The state of a demon.
Demonstrative : "A demonstrative pronoun; as, ""this"" and ""that"" are demonstratives."
Demulcent : A substance, usually of a mucilaginous or oily nature, supposed to be capable of soothing an inflamed nervous membrane, or protecting it from irritation. Gum Arabic, glycerin, olive oil, etc., are demulcents.
Demurral : Demur; delay in acting or deciding.
Denationalizing : of Denationalize
Dendrometer : An instrument to measure the height and diameter of trees.
Denitrify : To deprive of, or free from, nitrogen.
Denomination : A class, or society of individuals, called by the same name; a sect; as, a denomination of Christians.
Denote : To mark out plainly; to signify by a visible sign; to serve as the sign or name of; to indicate; to point out; as, the hands of the clock denote the hour.
Density : Depth of shade.
Dentate-sinuate : Having a form intermediate between dentate and sinuate.
Dentilated : Toothed.
Dentition : The development and cutting of teeth; teething.
Denied : of Deny
Deontologist : One versed in deontology.
Depaint : To mark with, or as with, color; to color.
Department : A distinct course of life, action, study, or the like; appointed sphere or walk; province.
Depectible : Tough; thick; capable of extension.
Dependence : That on which one depends or relies; as, he was her sole dependence.
Dephlegm : To rid of phlegm or water; to dephlegmate.
Depicturing : of Depicture
Depletory : Serving to deplete.
Deployed : of Deploy
Deponed : of Depone
Deport : Behavior; carriage; demeanor; deportment.
Deposit : To lodge in some one's hands for safe keeping; to commit to the custody of another; to intrust; esp., to place in a bank, as a sum of money subject to order.
Depository : A place where anything is deposited for sale or keeping; as, warehouse is a depository for goods; a clerk's office is a depository for records.
Depraver : One who deprave or corrupts.
Depreciation : the state of being depreciated.
Depressing : of Depress
Depression : The angular distance of a celestial object below the horizon.
Depriver : One who, or that which, deprives.
Depurating : of Depurate
Deputies : of Deputy
Derange : To disturb in action or function, as a part or organ, or the whole of a machine or organism.
Dereliction : A neglect or omission as if by willful abandonment.
Derivate : A thing derived; a derivative.
Derive : To turn the course of, as water; to divert and distribute into subordinate channels; to diffuse; to communicate; to transmit; -- followed by to, into, on, upon.
Dermatogen : Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a forming condition.
Dermoptera : A group of lemuroid mammals having a parachutelike web of skin between the fore and hind legs, of which the colugo (Galeopithecus) is the type. See Colugo.
Derogate : To act beneath one-s rank, place, birth, or character; to degenerate.
Derworth : Precious.
Descend : To go down upon or along; to pass from a higher to a lower part of; as, they descended the river in boats; to descend a ladder.
Descent : That which is descended; descendants; issue.
Descrying : of Descry
Desert : To abandon a service without leave; to quit military service without permission, before the expiration of one's term; to abscond.
Deserving : Meritorious; worthy; as, a deserving person or act.
Desiderative : Denoting desire; as, desiderative verbs.
Design : The realization of an inventive or decorative plan; esp., a work of decorative art considered as a new creation; conception or plan shown in completed work; as, this carved panel is a fine design, or of a fine design.
Designer : A plotter; a schemer; -- used in a bad sense.
Desire : To long for; to wish for earnestly; to covet.
Desistive : Final; conclusive; ending.
Desolate : Destitute or deprived of inhabitants; deserted; uninhabited; hence, gloomy; as, a desolate isle; a desolate wilderness; a desolate house.
Despairing : of Despair
Desperate : Beyond hope; causing despair; extremely perilous; irretrievable; past cure, or, at least, extremely dangerous; as, a desperate disease; desperate fortune.
Despiser : One who despises; a contemner; a scorner.
Desponded : of Despond
Despotism : The power, spirit, or principles of a despot; absolute control over others; tyrannical sway; tyranny.
Destinably : In a destinable manner.
Destitutely : In destitution.
Destructionist : One who delights in destroying that which is valuable; one whose principles and influence tend to destroy existing institutions; a destructive.
Desultory : Leaping or skipping about.
Detailing : of Detail
Detectable : Alt. of Detectible
Detergent : A substance which cleanses the skin, as water or soap; a medicine to cleanse wounds, ulcers, etc.
Determinate : To bring to an end; to determine. See Determine.
Determine : To fix the boundaries of; to mark off and separate.
Detersion : The act of deterging or cleansing, as a sore.
Dethroner : One who dethrones.
Detortion : The act of detorting, or the state of being detorted; a twisting or warping.
Detriment : That which injures or causes damage; mischief; harm; diminution; loss; damage; -- used very generically; as, detriments to property, religion, morals, etc.
Detumescence : Diminution of swelling; subsidence of anything swollen.
Deuteropathia : Alt. of Deuteropathy
Devastated : of Devastate
Developer : One who, or that which, develops.
Deviant : Deviating.
Devil : An evil spirit; a demon.
Devilish : Resembling, characteristic of, or pertaining to, the devil; diabolical; wicked in the extreme.
Devisable : Capable of being bequeathed, or given by will.
Devitrification : The act or process of devitrifying, or the state of being devitrified. Specifically, the conversion of molten glassy matter into a stony mass by slow cooling, the result being the formation of crystallites, microbites, etc., in the glassy base, which are then called devitrification products.
Devoration : The act of devouring.
Devotionist : One given to devotion, esp. to excessive formal devotion.
Devoutless : Destitute of devotion.
Dewiness : State of being dewy.
Dexterous : Skillful in contrivance; quick at inventing expedients; expert; as, a dexterous manager.
Dextrose : A sirupy, or white crystalline, variety of sugar, C6H12O6 (so called from turning the plane of polarization to the right), occurring in many ripe fruits. Dextrose and levulose are obtained by the inversion of cane sugar or sucrose, and hence called invert sugar. Dextrose is chiefly obtained by the action of heat and acids on starch, and hence called also starch sugar. It is also formed from starchy food by the action of the amylolytic ferments of saliva and pancreatic juice.
Dia- : Alt. of Di-
Diachylum : A plaster originally composed of the juices of several plants (whence its name), but now made of an oxide of lead and oil, and consisting essentially of glycerin mixed with lead salts of the fat acids.
Diaereses : of Dieresis
Diagometer : A sort of electroscope, invented by Rousseau, in which the dry pile is employed to measure the amount of electricity transmitted by different bodies, or to determine their conducting power.
Dialed : of Dial
Dialist : A maker of dials; one skilled in dialing.
Dialysis : Diaeresis. See Diaeresis, 1.
Diamantine : Adamantine.
Diamond : The smallest kind of type in English printing, except that called brilliant, which is seldom seen.
Diapason : Concord, as of notes an octave apart; harmony.
Diaphanometer : An instrument for measuring the transparency of the air.
Diaphysis : An abnormal prolongation of the axis of inflorescence.
Diary : lasting for one day; as, a diary fever.
Diathermanism : The doctrine or the phenomena of the transmission of radiant heat.
Diazotize : To subject to such reactions or processes that diazo compounds, or their derivatives, shall be produced by chemical exchange or substitution.
Dicacious : Talkative; pert; saucy.
Dichogamous : Manifesting dichogamy.
Dichromate : A salt of chromic acid containing two equivalents of the acid radical to one of the base; -- called also bichromate.
Diclinous : Having the stamens and pistils in separate flowers.
Dictation : The speaking to, or the giving orders to, in an overbearing manner; authoritative utterance; as, his habit, even with friends, was that of dictation.
Dictum : The report of a judgment made by one of the judges who has given it.
Didascalar : Didascalic.
Didst : the 2d pers. sing. imp. of Do.
Dies : of Die
Diesis : The mark /; -- called also double dagger.
Dietetic : Alt. of Dietetical
Difference : Disagreement in opinion; dissension; controversy; quarrel; hence, cause of dissension; matter in controversy.
Differentially : In the way of differentiation.
Difficulties : of Difficulty
Difform : Irregular in form; -- opposed to uniform; anomalous; hence, unlike; dissimilar; as, to difform corolla, the parts of which do not correspond in size or proportion; difform leaves.
Diffusible : Capable of flowing or spreading in all directions; that may be diffused.
Dig : A plodding and laborious student.
Digest : To soften by heat and moisture; to expose to a gentle heat in a boiler or matrass, as a preparation for chemical operations.
Digestive : A substance which, when applied to a wound or ulcer, promotes suppuration.
Digit : To point at or out with the finger.
Diglyph : A projecting face like the triglyph, but having only two channels or grooves sunk in it.
Digonous : Having two angles.
Dihedron : A figure with two sides or surfaces.
Dike : To drain by a dike or ditch.
Dilatability : The quality of being dilatable, or admitting expansion; -- opposed to contractibility.
Dilative : Causing dilation; tending to dilate, on enlarge; expansive.
Dilettantish : Dilettanteish.
Dilucidate : To elucidate.
Diluviums : of Diluvium
Dimensity : Dimension.
Diminishing : of Diminish
Diminutival : A diminutive.
Dimorphism : Difference of form between members of the same species, as when a plant has two kinds of flowers, both hermaphrodite (as in the partridge berry), or when there are two forms of one or both sexes of the same species of butterfly.
Dinning : of Din
Ding : To dash; to throw violently.
Dining : from Dine, a.
Dinted : of Dint
Dioecism : The condition of being dioecious.
Dioramic : Pertaining to a diorama.
Dip : To immerse one's self; to become plunged in a liquid; to sink.
Diphthong : A vowel digraph; a union of two vowels in the same syllable, only one of them being sounded; as, ai in rain, eo in people; -- called an improper diphthong.
Diploe : The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the plates of the skull.
Diplomatic : The science of diplomas, or the art of deciphering ancient writings, and determining their age, authenticity, etc.; paleography.
Dipping : The act or process of immersing.
Dipterocarpus : A genus of trees found in the East Indies, some species of which produce a fragrant resin, other species wood oil. The fruit has two long wings.
Direct : In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from west to east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of the motion of a celestial body.
Directly : In a direct manner; in a straight line or course.
Directory : A book containing the names and residences of the inhabitants of any place, or of classes of them; an address book; as, a business directory.
Dirigent : Directing.
Dirty : Sordid; base; groveling; as, a dirty fellow.
Disablement : Deprivation of ability; incapacity.
Disadvantage : Loss; detriment; hindrance; prejudice to interest, fame, credit, profit, or other good.
Disaffirmation : The act of disaffirming; negation; refutation.
Disagreer : One who disagrees.
Disanoint : To invalidate the consecration of; as, to disanoint a king.
Disappropriate : Severed from the appropriation or possession of a spiritual corporation.
Disarmer : One who disarms.
Disassimilative : Having power to disassimilate; of the nature of disassimilation.
Disavow : To refuse strongly and solemnly to own or acknowledge; to deny responsibility for, approbation of, and the like; to disclaim; to disown; as, he was charged with embezzlement, but he disavows the crime.
Disbelief : The act of disbelieving;; a state of the mind in which one is fully persuaded that an opinion, assertion, or doctrine is not true; refusal of assent, credit, or credence; denial of belief.
Disburse : To pay out; to expend; -- usually from a public fund or treasury.
Discarding : of Discard
Discerner : One who, or that which, discerns, distinguishes, perceives, or judges; as, a discerner of truth, of right and wrong.
Discharge : To free of the missile with which anything is charged or loaded; to let go the charge of; as, to discharge a bow, catapult, etc.; especially, said of firearms, -- to fire off; to shoot off; also, to relieve from a state of tension, as a Leyden jar.
Discharge : A flowing or issuing out; emission; vent; evacuation; also, that which is discharged or emitted; as, a rapid discharge of water from the pipe.
Disciplinable : Capable of being disciplined or improved by instruction and training.
Discipline : To educate; to develop by instruction and exercise; to train.
Disclose : To unclose; to open; -- applied esp. to eggs in the sense of to hatch.
Discoherent : Incoherent.
Discomfiture : The act of discomfiting, or the state of being discomfited; rout; overthrow; defeat; frustration; confusion and dejection.
Discommodity : Disadvantage; inconvenience.
Disconcert : To break up the harmonious progress of; to throw into disorder or confusion; as, the emperor disconcerted the plans of his enemy.
Discontent : Not content; discontented; dissatisfied.
Discontinuing : of Discontinue
Discordant : Dissonant; not in harmony or musical concord; harsh; jarring; as, discordant notes or sounds.
Discountenancing : of Discountenance
Discourse : Consecutive speech, either written or unwritten, on a given line of thought; speech; treatise; dissertation; sermon, etc.; as, the preacher gave us a long discourse on duty.
Discous : Disklike; discoid.
Discovery : The action of discovering; exposure to view; laying open; showing; as, the discovery of a plot.
Discrepancy : The state or quality of being discrepant; disagreement; variance; discordance; dissimilarity; contrariety.
Discriminant : The eliminant of the n partial differentials of any homogenous function of n variables. See Eliminant.
Discriminatory : Discriminative.
Discursist : A discourser.
Discussion : The act of discussing or exchanging reasons; examination by argument; debate; disputation; agitation.
Disdeify : To divest or deprive of deity or of a deific rank or condition.
Disembarked : of Disembark
Disembody : To disarm and disband, as a body of soldiers.
Disenamor : To free from the captivity of love.
Disengaging : of Disengage
Disenter : See Disinter.
Disesteem : To feel an absence of esteem for; to regard with disfavor or slight contempt; to slight.
Disfiguration : The act of disfiguring, or the state of being disfigured; defacement; deformity; disfigurement.
Disfurnishing : of Disfurnish
Disgorged : of Disgorge
Disgradation : Degradation; a stripping of titles and honors.
Disguising : A masque or masquerade.
Dishabille : An undress; a loose, negligent dress; deshabille.
Disherited : of Disherit
Dishonest : Wanting in honesty; void of integrity; faithless; disposed to cheat or defraud; not trustworthy; as, a dishonest man.
Dishorse : To dismount.
Disinclining : of Disincline
Disinherison : Same as Disherison.
Disinteress : To deprive or rid of interest in, or regard for; to disengage.
Disinvigorate : To enervate; to weaken.
Disjuncttion : The act of disjoining; disunion; separation; a parting; as, the disjunction of soul and body.
Dislade : To unlade.
Dislocate : To displace; to put out of its proper place. Especially, of a bone: To remove from its normal connections with a neighboring bone; to put out of joint; to move from its socket; to disjoint; as, to dislocate your bones.
Dismalness : The quality of being dismal; gloominess.
Dismay : To take dismay or fright; to be filled with dismay.
Dismission : Removal from office or employment; discharge, either with honor or with disgrace.
Disobediently : In a disobedient manner.
Disoccident : To turn away from the west; to throw out of reckoning as to longitude.
Disorderly : Not acting in an orderly way, as the functions of the body or mind.
Disownment : Act of disowning.
Disparate : Pertaining to two coordinate species or divisions.
Dispatched : of Dispatch
Dispeed : To send off with speed; to dispatch.
Dispensatorily : In the way of dispensation; dispensatively.
Disspermous : Containing only two seeds; two-seeded.
Dispirited : Depressed in spirits; disheartened; daunted.
Displantation : The act of displanting; removal; displacement.
Displeased : of Displease
Displosion : Explosion.
Disport : To divert or amuse; to make merry.
Disposedness : The state of being disposed or inclined; inclination; propensity.
Dispossess : To put out of possession; to deprive of the actual occupancy of, particularly of land or real estate; to disseize; to eject; -- usually followed by of before the thing taken away; as, to dispossess a king of his crown.
Disprison : To let loose from prison, to set at liberty.
Disprovable : Capable of being disproved or refuted.
Disputacity : Proneness to dispute.
Disqualification : That which disqualifies; that which incapacitates or makes unfit; as, conviction of crime is a disqualification of a person for office; sickness is a disqualification for labor.
Disquisition : A formal or systematic inquiry into, or discussion of, any subject; a full examination or investigation of a matter, with the arguments and facts bearing upon it; elaborate essay; dissertation.
Disrelish : Absence of relishing or palatable quality; bad taste; nauseousness.
Disreverence : To treat irreverently or with disrespect.
Dissatisfaction : The state of being dissatisfied, unsatisfied, or discontented; uneasiness proceeding from the want of gratification, or from disappointed wishes and expectations.
Disseized : of Disseize
Disseminate : To spread or extend by dispersion.
Dissenterism : The spirit or principles of dissenters.
Disserviceable : Calculated to do disservice or harm; not serviceable; injurious; harmful; unserviceable.
Dissilient : Starting asunder; bursting and opening with an elastic force; dehiscing explosively; as, a dissilient pericarp.
Dissipate : To scatter completely; to disperse and cause to disappear; -- used esp. of the dispersion of things that can never again be collected or restored.
Dissociated : of Dissociate
Dissolution : The new product formed by dissolving a body; a solution.
Dissolver : One who, or that which, has power to dissolve or dissipate.
Dissunder : To separate; to sunder; to destroy.
Distally : Toward a distal part.
Distant : Far separated; far off; not near; remote; -- in place, time, consanguinity, or connection; as, distant times; distant relatives.
Distasture : Something which excites distaste or disgust.
Distemperature : Disorder; confusion.
Disthene : Cyanite or kyanite; -- so called in allusion to its unequal hardness in two different directions. See Cyanite.
Distillation : That which falls in drops.
Distinction : Estimation of difference; regard to differences or distinguishing circumstance.
Distinguishable : Capable of being distinguished; separable; divisible; discernible; capable of recognition; as, a tree at a distance is distinguishable from a shrub.
Distorter : One who, or that which, distorts.
Distractible : Capable of being drawn aside or distracted.
Distrainer : Same as Distrainor.
Distressing : Causing distress; painful; unpleasant.
Distribution : The steps or operations by which steam is supplied to and withdrawn from the cylinder at each stroke of the piston; viz., admission, suppression or cutting off, release or exhaust, and compression of exhaust steam prior to the next admission.
Distrusted : of Distrust
Disturbance : Violent agitation in the body politic; public commotion; tumult.
Disunite : To alienate in spirit; to break the concord of.
Diswont : To deprive of wonted usage; to disaccustom.
Dite : To prepare for action or use; to make ready; to dight.
Ditrichotomous : Divided into twos or threes.
Ditty-box : A small box to hold a sailor's thread, needless, comb, etc.
Diuturnal : Of long continuance; lasting.
Divarication : A divergence of lines of color sculpture, or of fibers at different angles.
Diverberate : To strike or sound through.
Diverse : To turn aside.
Diversity : Multiplicity of difference; multiformity; variety.
Divertise : To divert; to entertain.
Divide : To part asunder (a whole); to sever into two or more parts or pieces; to sunder; to separate into parts.
Divident : Dividend; share.
Divine : Presageful; foreboding; prescient.
Divinify : To render divine; to deify.
Division : Difference of condition; state of distinction; distinction; contrast.
Divorce : The decree or writing by which marriage is dissolved.
Divulged : of Divulge
Dizzying : of Dizzy
Do : To cheat; to gull; to overreach.
Dobule : The European dace.
Dock : A case of leather to cover the clipped or cut tail of a horse.
Docket : To make a brief abstract of and inscribe in a book; as, judgments regularly docketed.
Doctorate : To make (one) a doctor.
Documental : Of or pertaining to instruction.
Dodecastyle : Having twelve columns in front.
Dodman : A snail; also, a snail shell; a hodmandod.
Dog : A mean, worthless fellow; a wretch.
Dog : A period of from four to six weeks, in the summer, variously placed by almanac makers between the early part of July and the early part of September; canicular days; -- so called in reference to the rising in ancient times of the Dog Star (Sirius) with the sun. Popularly, the sultry, close part of the summer.
Doggerel : Low in style, and irregular in measure; as, doggerel rhymes.
Dogmaticalness : The quality of being dogmatical; positiveness.
Dog : Sirius, a star of the constellation Canis Major, or the Greater Dog, and the brightest star in the heavens; -- called also Canicula, and, in astronomical charts, / Canis Majoris. See Dog days.
Doko : See Lepidosiren.
Dolente : Plaintively. See Doloroso.
Dollies : of Dolly
Dolorous : Full of grief; sad; sorrowful; doleful; dismal; as, a dolorous object; dolorous discourses.
Dom : A title anciently given to the pope, and later to other church dignitaries and some monastic orders. See Don, and Dan.
Domesmen : of Domesman
Domesticity : The state of being domestic; domestic character; household life.
Dominance : Alt. of Dominancy
Dominical : Relating to, or given by, our Lord; as, the dominical (or Lord's) prayer.
Domino : One of the pieces with which the game of dominoes is played.
Donation : The act or contract by which a person voluntarily transfers the title to a thing of which be is the owner, from himself to another, without any consideration, as a free gift.
Doniferous : Bearing gifts.
Doolies : of Dooly
Door : An opening in the wall of a house or of an apartment, by which to go in and out; an entrance way.
Dop : Alt. of Doop
Doric : Belonging to, or resembling, the oldest and simplest of the three orders of architecture used by the Greeks, but ranked as second of the five orders adopted by the Romans. See Abacus, Capital, Order.
Dorn : A British ray; the thornback.
Dorsel : Same as Dorsal, n.
Doryphora : A genus of plant-eating beetles, including the potato beetle. See Potato beetle.
Dot : Anything small and like a speck comparatively; a small portion or specimen; as, a dot of a child.
Dote : To act foolishly.
Doty : Half-rotten; as, doty timber.
Double : To play tricks; to use sleights; to play false.
Double-charge : To overcharge.
Double-lock : To lock with two bolts; to fasten with double security.
Doublethreaded : Consisting of two threads twisted together; using two threads.
Doubt : To fill with fear; to affright.
Doubtless : Undoubtedly; without doubt.
Doughface : A contemptuous nickname for a timid, yielding politician, or one who is easily molded.
Douse : To strike or lower in haste; to slacken suddenly; as, douse the topsail.
Dovetailed : of Dovetail
Dowelled : of Dowel
Down : To cover, ornament, line, or stuff with down.
Downcast : Cast downward; directed to the ground, from bashfulness, modesty, dejection, or guilt.
Downright : In plain terms; without ceremony.
Downward : Tending to a lower condition or state; depressed; dejected; as, downward thoughts.
Doxological : Pertaining to doxology; giving praise to God.
Dozer : One who dozes or drowses.
Drabble : To draggle; to wet and befoul by draggling; as, to drabble a gown or cloak.
Draconin : A red resin forming the essential basis of dragon's blood; -- called also dracin.
Draff : The slant given to the furrows in the dress of a millstone.
Drag : To serve as a clog or hindrance; to hold back.
Draggle : To wet and soil by dragging on the ground, mud, or wet grass; to drabble; to trail.
Dragonet : A small British marine fish (Callionymuslyra); -- called also yellow sculpin, fox, and gowdie.
Drain : To filter.
Drake : A dragon.
Dramatizing : of Dramatize
Drapery : The occupation of a draper; cloth-making, or dealing in cloth.
Draught : A sketch, outline, or representation, whether written, designed, or drawn; a delineation.
Draught : To diminish or exhaust by drawing.
Draw : To influence to move or tend toward one's self; to exercise an attracting force upon; to call towards itself; to attract; hence, to entice; to allure; to induce.
Draw : To draw a liquid from some receptacle, as water from a well.
Drawbench : A machine in which strips of metal are drawn through a drawplate; especially, one in which wire is thus made; -- also called drawing bench.
Drawgloves : An old game, played by holding up the fingers.
Drawloom : A kind of loom used in weaving figured patterns; -- called also drawboy.
Dread : Great fear in view of impending evil; fearful apprehension of danger; anticipatory terror.
Dreadlessness : Freedom from dread.
Dreamless : Free from, or without, dreams.
Dredge : To catch or gather with a dredge; to deepen with a dredging machine.
Drench : A drink; a draught; specifically, a potion of medicine poured or forced down the throat; also, a potion that causes purging.
Dress : That which is used as the covering or ornament of the body; clothes; garments; habit; apparel.
Dressmaker : A maker of gowns, or similar garments; a mantuamaker.
Dribbled : of Dribble
Drift : That which is driven, forced, or urged along
Drift : To accumulate in heaps by the force of wind; to be driven into heaps; as, snow or sand drifts.
Drilling : of Drill
Driller : One who, or that which, drills.
Drink : To smoke, as tobacco.
Dripple : Weak or rare.
Drive : A place suitable or agreeable for driving; a road prepared for driving.
Driver : An overseer of a gang of slaves or gang of convicts at their work.
Drogher : A small craft used in the West India Islands to take off sugars, rum, etc., to the merchantmen; also, a vessel for transporting lumber, cotton, etc., coastwise; as, a lumber drogher.
Drolleries : of Drollery
Droned : of Drone
Droop : To proceed downward, or toward a close; to decline.
Dropt : of Drop
Droplight : An apparatus for bringing artificial light down from a chandelier nearer to a table or desk; a pendant.
Drosera : A genus of low perennial or biennial plants, the leaves of which are beset with gland-tipped bristles. See Sundew.
Drouthy : Droughty.
Drownage : The act of drowning.
Drubber : One who drubs.
Drug : To tincture with something offensive or injurious.
Drum : A cylinder on a revolving shaft, generally for the purpose of driving several pulleys, by means of belts or straps passing around its periphery; also, the barrel of a hoisting machine, on which the rope or chain is wound.
Drumly : Turbid; muddy.
Drunken : Saturated with liquid or moisture; drenched.
Dry : Of vegetable matter: Free from juices or sap; not succulent; not green; as, dry wood or hay.
Dry : See under Dock.
Dryth : Alt. of Drith
Dub : To clothe or invest; to ornament; to adorn.
Dubious : Doubtful or not settled in opinion; being in doubt; wavering or fluctuating; undetermined.
Duchy : The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom.
Duckmeat : Alt. of Duck's-meat
Dudder : To confuse or confound with noise.
Due : That which is owed; debt; that which one contracts to pay, or do, to or for another; that which belongs or may be claimed as a right; whatever custom, law, or morality requires to be done; a fee; a toll.
Duff : Dough or paste.
Dukeling : A little or insignificant duke.
Dulciness : See Dulceness.
Dull : To deprive of liveliness or activity; to render heavy; to make inert; to depress; to weary; to sadden.
Dumb : Destitute of the power of speech; unable; to utter articulate sounds; as, the dumb brutes.
Dummy : A sham package in a shop, or one which does not contain what its exterior indicates.
Dump : A ground or place for dumping ashes, refuse, etc.
Dunbird : An American duck; the ruddy duck.
Dungeon : A close, dark prison, common/, under ground, as if the lower apartments of the donjon or keep of a castle, these being used as prisons.
Duodecahedron : See Dodecahedral, and Dodecahedron.
Dupe : To deceive; to trick; to mislead by imposing on one's credulity; to gull; as, dupe one by flattery.
Duplicity : Doubleness; a twofold state.
Durante : During; as, durante vita, during life; durante bene placito, during pleasure.
Durity : Harshness; cruelty.
Dusky : Gloomy; sad; melancholy.
Dustiness : The state of being dusty.
Duty : That which is due; payment.
Dwale : A sleeping potion; an opiate.
Dwell : To abide as a permanent resident, or for a time; to live in a place; to reside.
Dyeing : of Dye
Dynametrical : Pertaining to a dynameter.
Dynamometric : Alt. of Dynamometrical
Dysenterical : Of or pertaining to dysentery; having dysentery; as, a dysenteric patient.
Dysphoria : Impatience under affliction; morbid restlessness; dissatisfaction; the fidgets.
Eager : Sharp; keen; bitter; severe.
Ealderman : Alt. of Ealdorman
Earal : Receiving by the ear.
Earldorman : Alderman.
Earn : To acquire by labor, service, or performance; to deserve and receive as compensation or wages; as, to earn a good living; to earn honors or laurels.
Earring : An ornament consisting of a ring passed through the lobe of the ear, with or without a pendant.
Earth : To cover with earth or mold; to inter; to bury; -- sometimes with up.
Earthly : Of all things on earth; possible; conceivable.
Earthwork : An embankment or construction made of earth.
Easing : of Ease
Easiness : Freedom from jolting, jerking, or straining.
East : Belonging to, or relating to, the East Indies.
Eaten : of Eat
Eaves : Eyelids or eyelashes.
Ebon : Like ebony, especially in color; black; dark.
Ebulliency : A boiling up or over; effervescence.
Ecboline : An alkaloid constituting the active principle of ergot; -- so named from its power of producing abortion.
Ecchymose : To discolor by the production of an ecchymosis, or effusion of blood, beneath the skin; -- chiefly used in the passive form; as, the parts were much ecchymosed.
Ecclesiologist : One versed in ecclesiology.
Echinital : Of, or like, an echinite.
Echo : A sound reflected from an opposing surface and repeated to the ear of a listener; repercussion of sound; repetition of a sound.
Eclaircissement : The clearing up of anything which is obscure or not easily understood; an explanation.
Ecliptic : Pertaining to the ecliptic; as, the ecliptic way.
Economize : To be prudently sparing in expenditure; to be frugal and saving; as, to economize in order to grow rich.
Ecru : Having the color or appearance of unbleached stuff, as silk, linen, or the like.
Ecteron : The external layer of the skin and mucous membranes; epithelium; ecderon.
Ectolecithal : Having the food yolk, at the commencement of segmentation, in a peripheral position, and the cleavage process confined to the center of the egg; as, ectolecithal ova.
Ectrotic : Having a tendency to prevent the development of anything, especially of a disease.
Edder : To bind the top interweaving edder; as, to edder a hedge.
Edentalous : See Edentate, a.
Edge : To sail close to the wind.
Edification : The act of edifying, or the state of being edified; a building up, especially in a moral or spiritual sense; moral, intellectual, or spiritual improvement; instruction.
Edition : A literary work edited and published, as by a certain editor or in a certain manner; as, a good edition of Chaucer; Chalmers' edition of Shakespeare.
Education : The act or process of educating; the result of educating, as determined by the knowledge skill, or discipline of character, acquired; also, the act or process of training by a prescribed or customary course of study or discipline; as, an education for the bar or the pulpit; he has finished his education.
Edulcoration : The act of freeing from acids or any soluble substances, by affusions of water.
Eery : Serving to inspire fear, esp. a dread of seeing ghosts; wild; weird; as, eerie stories.
Effect : The purport; the sum and substance.
Effectually : Actually; in effect.
Effemination : Effeminacy; womanishness.
Efficacy : Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an agent or force; production of the effect intended; as, the efficacy of medicine in counteracting disease; the efficacy of prayer.
Effloresce : To change on the surface, or throughout, to a whitish, mealy, or crystalline powder, from a gradual decomposition, esp. from the loss of water, on simple exposure to the air; as, Glauber's salts, and many others, effloresce.
Efflux : The act or process of flowing out, or issuing forth; effusion; outflow; as, the efflux of matter from an ulcer; the efflux of men's piety.
Effront : To give assurance to.
Effused : of Effuse
Eger : Alt. of Egre
Egg-glass : A small sandglass, running about three minutes, for marking time in boiling eggs; also, a small glass for holding an egg, at table.
Egoical : Pertaining to egoism.
Egotize : To talk or write as an egotist.
Egritude : Sickness; ailment; sorrow.
Eight : A symbol representing eight units, as 8 or viii.
Eightscore : Eight times twenty; a hundred and sixty.
Ejaculated : of Ejaculate
Ejectment : A species of mixed action, which lies for the recovery of possession of real property, and damages and costs for the wrongful withholding of it.
Elaborated : of Elaborate
Elaiometer : An apparatus for determining the amount of oil contained in any substance, or for ascertaining the degree of purity of oil.
Elapsion : The act of elapsing.
Elated : of Elate
Elbow : Any turn or bend like that of the elbow, in a wall, building, and the like; a sudden turn in a line of coast or course of a river; also, an angular or jointed part of any structure, as the raised arm of a chair or sofa, or a short pipe fitting, turning at an angle or bent.
Elder : An aged person; one who lived at an earlier period; a predecessor.
Elecampane : A large, coarse herb (Inula Helenium), with composite yellow flowers. The root, which has a pungent taste, is used as a tonic, and was formerly of much repute as a stomachic.
Election : "Divine choice; predestination of individuals as objects of mercy and salvation; -- one of the ""five points"" of Calvinism."
Electoress : An electress.
Electrifiable : Capable of receiving electricity, or of being charged with it.
Electro-biologist : One versed in electro-biology.
Electrogenic : Of or pertaining to electrogenesis; as, an electrogenic condition.
Electro-magnetism : The magnetism developed by a current of electricity; the science which treats of the development of magnetism by means of voltaic electricity, and of the properties or actions of the currents evolved.
Electro-physiology : That branch of physiology which treats of electric phenomena produced through physiological agencies.
Electro-thermancy : That branch of electrical science which treats of the effect of an electric current upon the temperature of a conductor, or a part of a circuit composed of two different metals.
Electuaries : of Electuary
Elegist : A write of elegies.
Element : the conditions and movements of the air.
Elemin : A transparent, colorless oil obtained from elemi resin by distillation with water; also, a crystallizable extract from the resin.
Elephantoid : Alt. of Elephantoidal
Elevation : That which is raised up or elevated; an elevated place or station; as, an elevation of the ground; a hill.
Eleventh : Of or pertaining to the interval of the octave and the fourth.
Elicitate : To elicit.
Elimination : The act of expelling or throwing off
Elixir : Any cordial or substance which invigorates.
Ellipse : An oval or oblong figure, bounded by a regular curve, which corresponds to an oblique projection of a circle, or an oblique section of a cone through its opposite sides. The greatest diameter of the ellipse is the major axis, and the least diameter is the minor axis. See Conic section, under Conic, and cf. Focus.
Elmen : Belonging to elms.
Eloigned : of Eloign
Elongation : The angular distance of a planet from the sun; as, the elongation of Venus or Mercury.
Elsewhere : In some other place; in other places, indefinitely; as, it is reported in town and elsewhere.
Elumbated : Weak or lame in the loins.
Elvishly : In an elvish manner.
Emaciated : of Emaciate
Emanatory : Emanative; of the nature of an emanation.
Emasculate : To deprive of virile or procreative power; to castrate power; to castrate; to geld.
Embank : To throw up a bank so as to confine or to defend; to protect by a bank of earth or stone.
Embarkation : The act of putting or going on board of a vessel; as, the embarkation of troops.
Embassies : of Embassy
Embay : To shut in, or shelter, as in a bay.
Embezzle : To appropriate fraudulently to one's own use, as property intrusted to one's care; to apply to one's private uses by a breach of trust; as, to embezzle money held in trust.
Emblazonment : An emblazoning.
Embloom : To emblossom.
Embolic : Pushing or growing in; -- said of a kind of invagination. See under Invagination.
Emboss : To arise the surface of into bosses or protuberances; particularly, to ornament with raised work.
Embowelling : of Embowel
Embrace : To join in an embrace.
Embreathement : The act of breathing in; inspiration.
Embroil : See Embroilment.
Embryography : The general description of embryos.
Emburse : To furnish with money; to imburse.
Emerald : Of a rich green color, like that of the emerald.
Emeroids : Hemorrhoids; piles; tumors; boils.
Emictory : Diuretic.
Eminent : Being, metaphorically, above others, whether by birth, high station, merit, or virtue; high in public estimation; distinguished; conspicuous; as, an eminent station; an eminent historian, statements, statesman, or saint.
Emit : To issue forth, as an order or decree; to print and send into circulation, as notes or bills of credit.
Emolument : The profit arising from office, employment, or labor; gain; compensation; advantage; perquisites, fees, or salary.
Empale : To put to death by thrusting a sharpened stake through the body.
Emperil : To put in peril. See Imperil.
Emphysematous : Pertaining to, or of the nature of, emphysema; swelled; bloated.
Emplaster : See Plaster.
Employer : One who employs another; as, an employer of workmen.
Empress : The consort of an emperor.
Empty : Having nothing to carry; unburdened.
Empuzzle : To puzzle.
Emulation : The endeavor to equal or to excel another in qualities or actions; an assiduous striving to equal or excel another; rivalry.
Emulsion : Any liquid preparation of a color and consistency resembling milk; as: (a) In pharmacy, an extract of seeds, or a mixture of oil and water united by a mucilaginous substance. (b) In photography, a liquid preparation of collodion holding salt of silver, used in the photographic process.
Enabled : of Enable
Enallage : A substitution, as of one part of speech for another, of one gender, number, case, person, tense, mode, or voice, of the same word, for another.
Enamored : of Enamor
Enaunter : Lest that.
Encasement : The act of encasing; also, that which encases.
Encephalon : The contents of the cranium; the brain.
Enchantment : The act of enchanting; the production of certain wonderful effects by the aid of demons, or the agency of supposed spirits; the use of magic arts, spells, or charms; incantation.
Enchodus : A genus of extinct Cretaceous fishes; -- so named from their spear-shaped teeth. They were allied to the pike (Esox).
Enclitics : The art of declining and conjugating words.
Encomium : Warm or high praise; panegyric; strong commendation.
Encouraging : of Encourage
Encrisped : Curled.
Encurtain : To inclose with curtains.
End : Point beyond which no procession can be made; conclusion; issue; result, whether successful or otherwise; conclusive event; consequence.
Endangering : of Endanger
Endeavorer : One who makes an effort or attempt.
Endermically : By the endermic method; as, applied endermically.
Endoblast : Entoblast; endoplast. See Nucleus,
Endogenesis : Endogeny.
Endophragma : A chitinous structure above the nervous cord in the thorax of certain Crustacea.
Endorsement : Same as Indorsement.
Endosteum : The layer of vascular connective tissue lining the medullary cavities of bone.
Endowment : That which is bestowed or settled on a person or an institution; property, fund, or revenue permanently appropriated to any object; as, the endowment of a church, a hospital, or a college.
Endure : To harden; to toughen; to make hardy.
Energetical : Exhibiting energy; operating with force, vigor, and effect; forcible; powerful; efficacious; as, energetic measures; energetic laws.
Enervate : Weakened; weak; without strength of force.
Enfeoffment : The instrument or deed by which one is invested with the fee of an estate.
Enforced : of Enforce
Enforest : To turn into a forest.
Engage : To gain over; to win and attach; to attract and hold; to draw.
Engaging : Tending to draw the attention or affections; attractive; as, engaging manners or address.
Engine : To assault with an engine.
Engirded : of Engird
Englishable : Capable of being translated into, or expressed in, English.
Engorge : To swallow with greediness or in large quantities; to devour.
Engrailment : The ring of dots round the edge of a medal, etc.
Engraved : Made by engraving or ornamented with engraving.
Engrossment : The act of engrossing; as, the engrossment of a deed.
Enharmonical : Pertaining to a change of notes to the eye, while, as the same keys are used, the instrument can mark no difference to the ear, as the substitution of A/ for G/.
Enigmatology : The art of making or of solving enigmas.
Enjoyment : The condition of enjoying anything; pleasure or satisfaction, as in the possession or occupancy of anything; possession and use; as, the enjoyment of an estate.
Enlargement : The act of increasing in size or bulk, real or apparent; the state of being increased; augmentation; further extension; expansion.
Enlist : To enroll and bind one's self for military or naval service; as, he enlisted in the regular army; the men enlisted for the war.
Enmity : A state of opposition; hostility.
Ennew : To make new.
Enoptomancy : Divination by the use of a mirror.
Enouncement : Act of enouncing; that which is enounced.
Enrapture : To transport with pleasure; to delight beyond measure; to enravish.
Enrolled : of Enroll
Ensconcing : of Ensconce
Ensiform : Having the form of a sword blade; sword-shaped; as, an ensiform leaf.
Enslavedness : State of being enslaved.
Ensure : To make sure. See Insure.
Entail : To cut or carve in a ornamental way.
Entender : To make tender.
Enter : To penetrate mentally; to consider attentively; -- with into.
Enterorrhaphy : The operation of sewing up a rent in the intestinal canal.
Entertain : To lead on; to bring along; to introduce.
Enthrallment : The act of enthralling, or state of being enthralled. See Inthrallment.
Enthymeme : An argument consisting of only two propositions, an antecedent and consequent deduced from it; a syllogism with one premise omitted; as, We are dependent; therefore we should be humble. Here the major proposition is suppressed. The complete syllogism would be, Dependent creatures should be humble; we are dependent creatures; therefore we should be humble.
Entirely : Without alloy or mixture; truly; sincerely.
Entocuneiform : Alt. of Entocuniform
Entomolin : See Chitin.
Entomotomist : One who practices entomotomy.
Entozoa : A group of worms, including the tapeworms, flukes, roundworms, etc., most of which live parasitically in the interior of other animals; the Helminthes.
Entrance : The entering upon; the beginning, or that with which the beginning is made; the commencement; initiation; as, a difficult entrance into business.
Entreat : To treat or discourse; hence, to enter into negotiations, as for a treaty.
Entresol : A low story between two higher ones, usually between the ground floor and the first story; mezzanine.
Entwinement : A twining or twisting together or round; union.
Enunciating : of Enunciate
Envelop : The nebulous covering of the head or nucleus of a comet; -- called also coma.
Environed : of Environ
Envy : Public odium; ill repute.
Enwombing : of Enwomb
Eos : Aurora, the goddess of morn.
Epanody : The abnormal change of an irregular flower to a regular form; -- considered by evolutionists to be a reversion to an ancestral condition.
Epenetic : Bestowing praise; eulogistic; laudatory.
Ephemeris : Any tabular statement of the assigned places of a heavenly body, as a planet or comet, on several successive days.
Ephraim : A hunter's name for the grizzly bear.
Epicedian : An epicede.
Epicranium : The dorsal wall of the head of insects.
Epideictic : Serving to show forth, explain, or exhibit; -- applied by the Greeks to a kind of oratory, which, by full amplification, seeks to persuade.
Epidermis : The outer, nonsensitive layer of the skin; cuticle; scarfskin. See Dermis.
Epigenesis : The theory of generation which holds that the germ is created entirely new, not merely expanded, by the procreative power of the parents. It is opposed to the theory of evolution, also to syngenesis.
Epigrammatizer : One who writes in an affectedly pointed style.
Epilogic : Alt. of Epilogical
Epinicion : A song of triumph.
Epiphyseal : Alt. of Epiphysial
Epipodialia : of Epipodiale
Episcopalianism : The doctrine and usages of Episcopalians; episcopacy.
Episodic : Alt. of Episodical
Epistler : The ecclesiastic who reads the epistle at the communion service.
Epitaph : "A brief writing formed as if to be inscribed on a monument, as that concerning Alexander: ""Sufficit huic tumulus, cui non sufficeret orbis."""
Epithelioma : A malignant growth containing epithelial cells; -- called also epithelial cancer.
Epitome : A compact or condensed representation of anything.
Epizooty : Alt. of Epizootic
Epopee : Alt. of Epopoeia
Equable : Uniform in action or intensity; not variable or changing; -- said of the feelings or temper.
Equalities : of Equality
Equate : To make equal; to reduce to an average; to make such an allowance or correction in as will reduce to a common standard of comparison; to reduce to mean time or motion; as, to equate payments; to equate lines of railroad for grades or curves; equated distances.
Equiangled : Equiangular.
Equilibration : The process by which animal and vegetable organisms preserve a physiological balance.
Equinox : The time when the sun enters one of the equinoctial points, that is, about March 21 and September 22. See Autumnal equinox, Vernal equinox, under Autumnal and Vernal.
Equipollence : Alt. of Equipollency
Equisonance : An equal sounding; the consonance of the unison and its octaves.
Equivalence : To be equivalent or equal to; to counterbalance.
Equivocalness : The state of being equivocal.
Eradiated : of Eradiate
Erasement : The act of erasing; a rubbing out; expunction; obliteration.
Erect : Standing upright, with reference to the earth's surface, or to the surface to which it is attached.
Erective : Making erect or upright; raising; tending to erect.
Erewhile : Alt. of Erewhiles
Ericaceous : Belonging to the Heath family, or resembling plants of that family; consisting of heats.
Ermilin : See Ermine.
Eroded : Having the edge worn away so as to be jagged or irregularly toothed.
Erpetology : Herpetology.
Errata : See Erratum.
Error : The difference between the approximate result and the true result; -- used particularly in the rule of double position.
Erucic : Pertaining to, or derived from, a genus of cruciferous Mediterranean herbs (Eruca or Brassica); as, erucic acid, a fatty acid resembling oleic acid, and found in colza oil, mustard oil, etc.
Eruptive : Produced by eruption; as, eruptive rocks, such as the igneous or volcanic.
Erythrite : A rose-red mineral, crystallized and earthy, a hydrous arseniate of cobalt, known also as cobalt bloom; -- called also erythrin or erythrine.
Escalade : A furious attack made by troops on a fortified place, in which ladders are used to pass a ditch or mount a rampart.
Escape : To flee, and become secure from danger; -- often followed by from or out of.
Escarpment : A steep descent or declivity; steep face or edge of a ridge; ground about a fortified place, cut away nearly vertically to prevent hostile approach. See Scarp.
Escheat : To forfeit.
Escorting : of Escort
Esculent : Anything that is fit for eating; that which may be safely eaten by man.
Esnecy : A prerogative given to the eldest coparcener to choose first after an inheritance is divided.
Espaliering : of Espalier
Espousage : Espousal.
-esque : A suffix of certain words from the French, Italian, and Spanish. It denotes manner or style; like; as, arabesque, after the manner of the Arabs.
Essence : The constituent quality or qualities which belong to any object, or class of objects, or on which they depend for being what they are (distinguished as real essence); the real being, divested of all logical accidents; that quality which constitutes or marks the true nature of anything; distinctive character; hence, virtue or quality of a thing, separated from its grosser parts.
Esentially : In an essential manner or degree; in an indispensable degree; really; as, essentially different.
Establish : To secure public recognition in favor of; to prove and cause to be accepted as true; as, to establish a fact, usage, principle, opinion, doctrine, etc.
Estate : To endow with an estate.
Estimable : Valuable; worth a great price.
Estoile : A six-pointed star whose rays are wavy, instead of straight like those of a mullet.
Estray : To stray.
Estuate : To boil up; to swell and rage; to be agitated.
Etch : To produce, as figures or designs, on mental, glass, or the like, by means of lines or strokes eaten in or corroded by means of some strong acid.
Eternalize : To make eternal.
Ethenyl : A univalent hydrocarbon radical of the ethylene series, CH2:CH; -- called also vinyl. See Vinyl.
Etheriform : Having the form of ether.
Ethiopian : Alt. of Ethiopic
Ethnographic : Alt. of Ethnographical
Ethylic : Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, ethyl; as, ethylic alcohol.
Etoile : See Estoile.
Etymologies : of Etymology
Euchloric : Relating to, or consisting of, euchlorine; as, euchloric /.
Eudemonics : Alt. of Eudaemonics
Eugenic : Pertaining to, or derived from, cloves; as, eugenic acid.
Eulogical : Bestowing praise of eulogy; commendatory; eulogistic.
Eunuchism : The state of being eunuch.
Euphonical : Pertaining to, or exhibiting, euphony; agreeable in sound; pleasing to the ear; euphonious; as, a euphonic expression; euphonical orthography.
Euphuistic : Belonging to the euphuists, or euphuism; affectedly refined.
Euritic : Of or pelating to eurite.
Euterpe : The Muse who presided over music.
Evacuate : To remove; to eject; to void; to discharge, as the contents of a vessel, or of the bowels.
Eval : Relating to time or duration.
Evangelicism : Evangelical principles; evangelism.
Evaporate : To escape or pass off without effect; to be dissipated; to be wasted, as, the spirit of writer often evaporates in the process of translation.
Evection : The libration of the moon.
Even : At the very time; in the very case.
Eventilate : To winnow out; to fan.
Ever : At all times; through all time; always; forever.
Everliving : Continual; incessant; unintermitted.
Evesdrop : See Eavesdrop.
Evidentiary : Furnishing evidence; asserting; proving; evidential.
Evince : To show in a clear manner; to prove beyond any reasonable doubt; to manifest; to make evident; to bring to light; to evidence.
Evoked : of Evoke
Evolutionist : One skilled in evolutions.
Ewt : The newt.
Exaction : The act of demanding with authority, and compelling to pay or yield; compulsion to give or furnish; a levying by force; a driving to compliance; as, the exaction to tribute or of obedience; hence, extortion.
Exaggerator : One who exaggerates; one addicted to exaggeration.
Exaltment : Exaltation.
Example : That which is to be followed or imitated as a model; a pattern or copy.
Exanthema : An efflorescence or discoloration of the skin; an eruption or breaking out, as in measles, smallpox, scarlatina, and the like diseases; -- sometimes limited to eruptions attended with fever.
Exasperation : Increase of violence or malignity; aggravation; exacerbation.
Excandescence : A growing hot; a white or glowing heat; incandescence.
Excecation : The act of making blind.
Excellencies : of Excellency
Except : With exclusion of; leaving or left out; excepting.
Excerp : To pick out.
Exchanging : of Exchange
Excipient : An inert or slightly active substance used in preparing remedies as a vehicle or medium of administration for the medicinal agents.
Excitant : An agent or influence which arouses vital activity, or produces increased action, in a living organism or in any of its tissues or parts; a stimulant.
Excito-motor : Excito-motory; as, excito-motor power or causes.
Exclusion : The act of expelling or ejecting a fetus or an egg from the womb.
Excommunicable : Liable or deserving to be excommunicated; making excommunication possible or proper.
Excreate : To spit out; to discharge from the throat by hawking and spitting.
Excretive : Having the power of excreting, or promoting excretion.
Excurrent : Characterized by a current which flows outward; as, an excurrent orifice or tube.
Excuse : The act of excusing, apologizing, exculpating, pardoning, releasing, and the like; acquittal; release; absolution; justification; extenuation.
Execrative : A word used for cursing; an imprecatory word or expression.
Execution : The act of the mode of performing a work of art, of performing on an instrument, of engraving, etc.; as, the execution of a statue, painting, or piece of music.
Exedent : Eating out; consuming.
Exemplary : Serving as a warning; monitory; as, exemplary justice, punishment, or damages.
Exempt : To remove; to set apart.
Exercise : That which gives practice; a trial; a test.
Exesion : The act of eating out or through.
Exhale : To breathe out. Hence: To emit, as vapor; to send out, as an odor; to evaporate; as, the earth exhales vapor; marshes exhale noxious effluvia.
Exhaustion : The act of draining out or draining off; the act of emptying completely of the contents.
Exhibition : That which is exhibited, held forth, or displayed; also, any public show; a display of works of art, or of feats of skill, or of oratorical or dramatic ability; as, an exhibition of animals; an exhibition of pictures, statues, etc.; an industrial exhibition.
Exhort : Exhortation.
Exigenter : An officer in the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas whose duty it was make out exigents. The office in now abolished.
Exist : To be manifest in any manner; to continue to be; as, great evils existed in his reign.
Exocarp : The outer portion of a fruit, as the flesh of a peach or the rind of an orange. See Illust. of Drupe.
Exogenetic : Arising or growing from without; exogenous.
Exophthalmos : Alt. of Exophthalmus
Exorcise : To deliver or purify from the influence of an evil spirit or demon.
Exosmosis : See Exosmose.
Expanded : of Expand
Expansive : Having a capacity or tendency to expand or dilate; diffusive; of much expanse; wide-extending; as, the expansive force of heat; the expansive quality of air.
Expect : Expectation.
Expectorant : An expectorant medicine.
Expediently : With expedition; quickly.
Expel : To drive or force out from that within which anything is contained, inclosed, or situated; to eject; as to expel air from a bellows.
Expensive : Occasioning expense; calling for liberal outlay; costly; dear; liberal; as, expensive dress; an expensive house or family.
Experiment : To make experiment; to operate by test or trial; -- often with on, upon, or in, referring to the subject of an experiment; with, referring to the instrument; and by, referring to the means; as, to experiment upon electricity; he experimented in plowing with ponies, or by steam power.
Expertly : In a skillful or dexterous manner; adroitly; with readiness and accuracy.
Expiration : The act of expiring
Expiscate : To fish out; to find out by skill or laborious investigation; to search out.
Expletion : Accomplishment; fulfillment.
Explicitly : In an explicit manner; clearly; plainly; without disguise or reservation of meaning; not by inference or implication; as, he explicitly avows his intention.
Exploiture : The act of exploiting or accomplishing; achievement.
Explosive : An explosive agent; a compound or mixture susceptible of a rapid chemical reaction, as gunpowder, or nitro-glycerine.
Exporter : One who exports; the person who sends goods or commodities to a foreign country, in the way of commerce; -- opposed to importer.
Expostulated : of Expostulate
Express : A clear image or representation; an expression; a plain declaration.
Expressional : Of, or relating to, expression; phraseological; also, vividly representing or suggesting an idea or sentiment.
Expulser : An expeller.
Exquisite : Exceeding; extreme; keen; -- used in a bad or a good sense; as, exquisite pain or pleasure.
Exsect : The removal by operation of a portion of a limb; particularly, the removal of a portion of a bone in the vicinity of a joint; the act or process of cutting out.
Exsuction : The act of sucking out.
Extemporarily : Extemporaneously.
Extend : To increase in quantity by weakening or adulterating additions; as, to extend liquors.
Extensionist : One who favors or advocates extension.
Extenuation : The act of axtenuating or the state of being extenuated; the act of making thin, slender, or lean, or of palliating; diminishing, or lessening; palliation, as of a crime; mitigation, as of punishment.
Extern : External; outward; not inherent.
Exterritoriality : The state of being beyond the limits of a country.
Extinguisher : One who, or that which, extinguishes; esp., a hollow cone or other device for extinguishing a flame, as of a torch or candle.
Extolment : Praise.
Extraarticular : Situated outside of a joint.
Extraction : The act of extracting, or drawing out; as, the extraction of a tooth, of a bone or an arrow from the body, of a stump from earth, of a passage from a book, of an essence or tincture.
Extrafoliaceous : Away from the leaves, or inserted in a different place from them; as, extrafoliaceous prickles.
Extraparochial : Beyond the limits of a parish.
Extravagant : One who is confined to no general rule.
Extreme : Radical; ultra; as, extreme opinions.
Extrication : The act or process of extricating or disentangling; a freeing from perplexities; disentanglement.
Extuberancy : Extuberance.
Exulceration : A fretting; a festering; soreness.
Exuperation : The act of rising or coming into view.
Ey : An interj. of wonder or inquiry.
Eye : That which resembles the eye in relative importance or beauty.
Eyeglass : The retina.
Eyesore : Something offensive to the eye or sight; a blemish.
Eyliad : See /iliad.
Fable : A Feigned story or tale, intended to instruct or amuse; a fictitious narration intended to enforce some useful truth or precept; an apologue. See the Note under Apologue.
Fabricant : One who fabricates; a manufacturer.
Faburden : A succession of chords of the sixth.
Faced : of Face
Faceted : of Facet
Facile : Easy to be surmounted or removed; easily conquerable; readily mastered.
Facingly : In a facing manner or position.
Factitive : Pertaining to that relation which is proper when the act, as of a transitive verb, is not merely received by an object, but produces some change in the object, as when we say, He made the water wine.
Factorize : To attach (the effects of a debtor) in the hands of a third person ; to garnish. See Garnish.
Faculty : Special mental endowment; characteristic knack.
Fadeless : Not liable to fade; unfading.
Fag : To tire by labor; to exhaust; as, he was almost fagged out.
Fahrenheit : The Fahrenheit termometer or scale.
Faille : A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy.
Faint : To become weak or wanting in vigor; to grow feeble; to lose strength and color, and the control of the bodily or mental functions; to swoon; -- sometimes with away. See Fainting, n.
Fair : Without sudden change of direction or curvature; smooth; fowing; -- said of the figure of a vessel, and of surfaces, water lines, and other lines.
Fairly : In a fair manner; clearly; openly; plainly; fully; distinctly; frankly.
Fairylike : Resembling a fairy, or what is made or done be fairies; as, fairylike music.
Faitour : A doer or actor; particularly, an evil doer; a scoundrel.
Falcon : An ancient form of cannon.
Falling : of Fall
Fall : To let fall; to drop.
Fall : Formerly, a kind of ruff or band for the neck; a falling band; a faule.
Fallow : Plowed land.
False : To mislead by want of truth; to deceive.
Falsifier : One who falsifies, or gives to a thing a deceptive appearance; a liar.
Falter : To tremble; to totter; to be unsteady.
Familiar : Closely acquainted or intimate, as a friend or companion; well versed in, as any subject of study; as, familiar with the Scriptures.
Familisteries : of Familistery
Famish : To suffer extreme hunger or thirst, so as to be exhausted in strength, or to come near to perish.
Fanning : of Fan
Fanciful : Curiously shaped or constructed; as, she wore a fanciful headdress.
Fancy-sick : Love-sick.
Fang : A projecting tooth or prong, as in a part of a lock, or the plate of a belt clamp, or the end of a tool, as a chisel, where it enters the handle.
Fantail : A variety of the domestic pigeon, so called from the shape of the tail.
Fantasies : of Fantasy
Faradic : Of or pertaining to Michael Faraday, the distinguished electrician; -- applied especially to induced currents of electricity, as produced by certain forms of inductive apparatus, on account of Faraday's investigations of their laws.
Farcing : Stuffing; forcemeat.
Fare : Ado; bustle; business.
Farinose : Yielding farinaa; as, farinose substances.
Farmer : One who is devoted to the tillage of the soil; one who cultivates a farm; an agriculturist; a husbandman.
Farreation : Same as Confarreation.
Farther : More remote; more distant than something else.
Fascia : A broad well-defined band of color.
Fascinate : To influence in an uncontrollable manner; to operate on by some powerful or irresistible charm; to bewitch; to enchant.
Fashion : To form; to give shape or figure to; to mold.
Fast : To abstain from food; to omit to take nourishment in whole or in part; to go hungry.
Fasten : To cause to take close effect; to make to tell; to lay on; as, to fasten a blow.
Fastuous : Proud; haughty; disdainful.
Fatal : Causing death or destruction; deadly; mortal; destructive; calamitous; as, a fatal wound; a fatal disease; a fatal day; a fatal error.
Fated : Exempted by fate.
Fathers-in-law : of Father-in-law
Fathomless : Incapable of being fathomed; immeasurable; that can not be sounded.
Fat-kidneyed : Gross; lubberly.
Fat-wited : Dull; stupid.
Fault : A lost scent; act of losing the scent.
Faunist : One who describes the fauna of country; a naturalist.
Favillous : Of or pertaining to ashes.
Favored : Countenanced; aided; regarded with kidness; as, a favored friend.
Fawe : Fain; glad; delighted.
Fay : To lie close together; to fit; to fadge; -- often with in, into, with, or together.
Fear : To be anxious or solicitous for.
Feast : A festival; a holiday; a solemn, or more commonly, a joyous, anniversary.
Feather : The fringe of long hair on the legs of the setter and some other dogs.
Feathered : Having a fringe of feathers, as the legs of certian birds; or of hairs, as the legs of a setter dog.
Featness : Skill; adroitness.
Febrific : Producing fever.
Feculency : Feculence.
Federalist : An advocate of confederation; specifically (Amer. Hist.), a friend of the Constitution of the United States at its formation and adoption; a member of the political party which favored the administration of president Washington.
Feeble : To make feble; to enfeeble.
Feed : An allowance of provender given to a horse, cow, etc.; a meal; as, a feed of corn or oats.
Feejee : See Fijian.
Feeling : The sense by which the mind, through certain nerves of the body, perceives external objects, or certain states of the body itself; that one of the five senses which resides in the general nerves of sensation distributed over the body, especially in its surface; the sense of touch; nervous sensibility to external objects.
Feign : To dissemble; to conceal.
felicitating : of Felicitate
Felling : of Fell
Fellow : A man without good breeding or worth; an ignoble or mean man.
Fellowship : A foundation for the maintenance, on certain conditions, of a scholar called a fellow, who usually resides at the university.
Felony : An offense which occasions a total forfeiture either lands or goods, or both, at the common law, and to which capital or other punishment may be added, according to the degree of guilt.
Feltry : See Felt, n.
Feminine : Having the qualities of a woman; becoming or appropriate to the female sex; as, in a good sense, modest, graceful, affectionate, confiding; or, in a bad sense, weak, nerveless, timid, pleasure-loving, effeminate.
Fence : A projection on the bolt, which passes through the tumbler gates in locking and unlocking.
Fend : A fiend.
Fenestrate : Having transparent spots, as the wings of certain butterflies.
Feodal : Feudal. See Feudal.
Feral : Wild; untamed; ferine; not domesticated; -- said of beasts, birds, and plants.
Feriation : The act of keeping holiday; cessation from work.
Fermentability : Capability of fermentation.
Ferrara : A sword bearing the mark of one of the Ferrara family of Italy. These swords were highly esteemed in England and Scotland in the 16th and 17th centuries.
Ferric : Pertaining to, derived from, or containing iron. Specifically (Chem.), denoting those compounds in which iron has a higher valence than in the ferrous compounds; as, ferric oxide; ferric acid.
Ferruginous : Partaking of iron; containing particles of iron.
Fertile : Producing fruit or vegetation in abundance; fruitful; able to produce abundantly; prolific; fecund; productive; rich; inventive; as, fertile land or fields; a fertile mind or imagination.
Ferule : A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on the hand, in punishment.
Fescued : of Fescue
Fester : A festering or rankling.
Festucous : Formed or consisting of straw.
Fete : A feat.
Fetidness : The quality or state of being fetid.
Fettle : To repair; to prepare; to put in order.
Fedaliza/tion : The act of reducing to feudal tenure.
Fever : A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat, acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of the functions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite. Many diseases, of which fever is the most prominent symptom, are denominated fevers; as, typhoid fever; yellow fever.
Fewness : The state of being few; smallness of number; paucity.
Fiaunt : Commission; fiat; order; decree.
FibrillAe : of Fibrilla
Fibroid : Resembling or forming fibrous tissue; made up of fibers; as, fibroid tumors.
Fickle : Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeable mind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as, Fortune's fickle wheel.
Fid : A pin of hard wood, tapering to a point, used to open the strands of a rope in splicing.
Fiddlewood : The wood of several West Indian trees, mostly of the genus Citharexylum.
Fiducially : With confidence.
Field : To stand out in the field, ready to catch, stop, or throw the ball.
Fieriness : The quality of being fiery; heat; acrimony; irritability; as, a fieriness of temper.
Fifth : Next in order after the fourth; -- the ordinal of five.
Figary : A frolic; a vagary; a whim.
Fightwite : A mulct or fine imposed on a person for making a fight or quarrel to the disturbance of the peace.
Figurative : Representing by a figure, or by resemblance; typical; representative.
Figuring : of Figure
Fijian : Of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants.
Filch : To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of little value); to pilfer.
File : To make foul; to defile.
Filiciform : Shaped like a fern or like the parts of a fern leaf.
Fill : To possess and perform the duties of; to officiate in, as an incumbent; to occupy; to hold; as, a king fills a throne; the president fills the office of chief magistrate; the speaker of the House fills the chair.
Fillet : A fascia; a band of fibers; applied esp. to certain bands of white matter in the brain.
Fillister : A plane for making a rabbet.
Filthily : In a filthy manner; foully.
Fimbricate : Fringed; jagged; fimbriate.
Finale : The last movement of a symphony, sonata, concerto, or any instrumental composition.
Finback : Any whale of the genera Sibbaldius, Balaenoptera, and allied genera, of the family Balaenopteridae, characterized by a prominent fin on the back. The common finbacks of the New England coast are Sibbaldius tectirostris and S. tuberosus.
Findfault : A censurer or caviler.
Fine : To make finer, or less coarse, as in bulk, texture, etc.; as. to fine the soil.
Fineness : The proportion of pure silver or gold in jewelry, bullion, or coins.
Fin-footed : Having lobate toes, as the coot and grebe.
Fingering : The marking of the notes of a piece of music to guide or regulate the action or use of the fingers.
Finish : To arrive at the end of; to bring to an end; to put an end to; to make an end of; to terminate.
Finlander : A native or inhabitant of Finland.
Fin-toed : Having toes connected by a membrane; palmiped; palmated; also, lobate.
Fire : To subject to intense heat; to bake; to burn in a kiln; as, to fire pottery.
Firebrand : A piece of burning wood.
Fireplace : The part a chimney appropriated to the fire; a hearth; -- usually an open recess in a wall, in which a fire may be built.
Firing : Fuel; firewood or coal.
Firmer-chisel : A chisel, thin in proportion to its width. It has a tang to enter the handle instead of a socket for receiving it.
Firstling : Firstborn.
Fish : The flesh of fish, used as food.
Fishery : A place for catching fish.
Fishwoman : A woman who retails fish.
Fissiped : One of the Fissipedia.
Fistuca : An instrument used by the ancients in driving piles.
Fitting : of Fit
Fitched : Fitche.
Fitting : necessary fixtures or apparatus; as, the fittings of a church or study; gas fittings.
Fix : To make firm, stable, or fast; to set or place permanently; to fasten immovably; to establish; to implant; to secure; to make definite.
Fixedness : The quality of a body which resists evaporation or volatilization by heat; solidity; cohesion of parts; as, the fixedness of gold.
Fizzle : To make a hissing sound.
Flagged : of Flag
Flagellated : of Flagellate
Flaggy : Abounding with the plant called flag; as, a flaggy marsh.
-staves : of Flagstaff
Flaky : Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, or cleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike.
Flameless : Destitute of flame.
Flamy : Flaming; blazing; flamelike; flame-colored; composed of flame.
Flanked : of Flank
Flap : To beat with a flap; to strike.
Flare : An unsteady, broad, offensive light.
Flash : The time during which a flash is visible; an instant; a very brief period.
Flashy : Showy; gay; gaudy; as, a flashy dress.
Flat : Without allowance for accrued interest.
Flat : To fall form the pitch.
Flatness : Want of variety or flavor; dullness; insipidity.
Flattering : That flatters (in the various senses of the verb); as, a flattering speech.
Flatus : A breath; a puff of wind.
Flavor : That quality of anything which affects the smell; odor; fragrances; as, the flavor of a rose.
Flawn : A sort of flat custard or pie.
Flea-bite : A trifling wound or pain, like that of the bite of a flea.
Flection : The variation of words by declension, comparison, or conjugation; inflection.
Fleece : To spread over as with wool.
Fleet : To fly swiftly; to pass over quickly; to hasten; to flit as a light substance.
Fleme : To banish; to drive out; to expel.
Flesh : To glut; to satiate; hence, to harden, to accustom.
Fleshpot : plenty; high living.
Flexing : of Flex
Flexure : The act of flexing or bending; a turning or curving; flexion; hence, obsequious bowing or bending.
Flidge : To become fledged; to fledge.
Flimflam : A freak; a trick; a lie.
Fling : To throw; to wince; to flounce; as, the horse began to kick and fling.
Flip : A mixture of beer, spirit, etc., stirred and heated by a hot iron.
Flirt : To run and dart about; to act with giddiness, or from a desire to attract notice; especially, to play the coquette; to play at courtship; to coquet; as, they flirt with the young men.
Flitch : The side of a hog salted and cured; a side of bacon.
Float : The hollow, metallic ball of a self-acting faucet, which floats upon the water in a cistern or boiler.
Floatable : That may be floated.
Flocculate : Furnished with tufts of curly hairs, as some insects.
Flock : To coat with flock, as wall paper; to roughen the surface of (as glass) so as to give an appearance of being covered with fine flock.
Flood : To overflow; to inundate; to deluge; as, the swollen river flooded the valley.
Flooring : of Floor
Flora : The goddess of flowers and spring.
Floriated : Having floral ornaments; as, floriated capitals of Gothic pillars.
Florimer : See Floramour.
Flotage : That which floats on the sea or in rivers.
Floundering : of Flounder
Flourish : To move in bold or irregular figures; to swing about in circles or vibrations by way of show or triumph; to brandish.
Flowed : of Flow
Flower : That part of a plant destined to produce seed, and hence including one or both of the sexual organs; an organ or combination of the organs of reproduction, whether inclosed by a circle of foliar parts or not. A complete flower consists of two essential parts, the stamens and the pistil, and two floral envelopes, the corolla and callyx. In mosses the flowers consist of a few special leaves surrounding or subtending organs called archegonia. See Blossom, and Corolla.
Flower-gentle : A species of amaranth (Amarantus melancholicus).
Fluate : A fluoride.
Flue : A pipe or passage for conveying flame and hot gases through surrounding water in a boiler; -- distinguished from a tube which holds water and is surrounded by fire. Small flues are called fire tubes or simply tubes.
Fluidized : of Fluidize
Flunked : of Flunk
Fluor : A fluid state.
Fluosilicic : Composed of, or derived from, silicon and fluorine.
Flush : To excite; to animate; to stir.
Flustered : of Fluster
Fluted : Thin; fine; clear and mellow; flutelike; as, fluted notes.
Fluviatile : Belonging to rivers or streams; existing in or about rivers; produced by river action; fluvial; as, fluviatile starta, plants.
Fluxion : The act of flowing.
Fly : To float, wave, or rise in the air, as sparks or a flag.
Fly : The pair of arms revolving around the bobbin, in a spinning wheel or spinning frame, to twist the yarn.
Flyer : The fly of a flag: See Fly, n., 6.
Foal : The young of any animal of the Horse family (Equidae); a colt; a filly.
Focal : Belonging to,or concerning, a focus; as, a focal point.
Fodder : To feed, as cattle, with dry food or cut grass, etc.;to furnish with hay, straw, oats, etc.
Fog : To practice in a small or mean way; to pettifog.
Foh : An exclamation of abhorrence or contempt; poh; fle.
Foiler : One who foils or frustrates.
Foisty : Fusty; musty.
Folding : The keepig of sheep in inclosures on arable land, etc.
Foliation : The process of forming into a leaf or leaves.
Fo'liolate : Of or pertaining to leaflets; -- used in composition; as, bi-foliolate.
Folkmoter : One who takes part in a folkmote, or local court.
Follow : To go or come after; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb: To pursue; to attend; to accompany; to be a result; to imitate.
Foment : To apply a warm lotion to; to bathe with a cloth or sponge wet with warm water or medicated liquid.
Fondled : of Fondle
Fontal : Pertaining to a font, fountain, source, or origin; original; primitive.
Fool : To use as a fool; to deceive in a shameful or mortifying manner; to impose upon; to cheat by inspiring foolish confidence; as, to fool one out of his money.
Foolishness : The quality of being foolish.
Foot : To kick with the foot; to spurn.
Footed : Having a foothold; established.
Footlicker : A sycophant; a fawner; a toady. Cf. Bootlick.
Footrope : The rope rigged below a yard, upon which men stand when reefing or furling; -- formerly called a horse.
Fopling : A petty fop.
Forage : Food of any kind for animals, especially for horses and cattle, as grass, pasture, hay, corn, oats.
Forbade : imp. of Forbid.
Forbid : of Forbid
Force : To stuff; to lard; to farce.
Force : To use violence; to make violent effort; to strive; to endeavor.
Forcibly : In a forcible manner.
Fordry : Entirely dry; withered.
Foreboded : of Forebode
Forecastle : That part of the upper deck of a vessel forward of the foremast, or of the after part of the fore channels.
Forefence : Defense in front.
Foregoer : One who forbears to enjoy.
Forehook : A piece of timber placed across the stem, to unite the bows and strengthen the fore part of the ship; a breast hook.
Foreknowledge : Knowledge of a thing before it happens, or of whatever is to happen; prescience.
Foremast : The mast nearest the bow.
Foreordination : Previous ordination or appointment; predetermination; predestination.
Forerunner : A messenger sent before to give notice of the approach of others; a harbinger; a sign foreshowing something; a prognostic; as, the forerunner of a fever.
Foreshot : In distillation of low wines, the first portion of spirit that comes over, being a fluid abounding in fusel oil.
Forespeaking : A prediction; also, a preface.
Forestay : A large, strong rope, reaching from the foremast head to the bowsprit, to support the mast. See Illust. under Ship.
Forethink : To contrive (something) beforehend.
Forevouched : Formerly vouched or avowed; affirmed in advance.
Foreworn : Worn out; wasted; used up.
Forfete : To incur a penalty; to transgress.
Forger : One who forges, makes, of forms; a fabricator; a falsifier.
Forgetive : Inventive; productive; capable.
Forgone : of Forgo
Fork : To shoot into blades, as corn.
Forlese : To lose utterly.
Form : The seat or bed of a hare.
Formal : Done in due form, or with solemnity; according to regular method; not incidental, sudden or irregular; express; as, he gave his formal consent.
Formalize : To render formal.
Formell : The female of a hawk or falcon.
Formidable : Exciting fear or apprehension; impressing dread; adapted to excite fear and deter from approach, encounter, or undertaking; alarming.
Formulated : of Formulate
Fornication : Idolatry.
Forslack : To neglect by idleness; to delay or to waste by sloth.
Forswear : To swear falsely; to commit perjury.
Forthcoming : Ready or about to appear; making appearance.
Fortifier : One who, or that which, fortifies, strengthens, supports, or upholds.
Fortress : To furnish with a fortress or with fortresses; to guard; to fortify.
Forty : The sum of four tens; forty units or objects.
Forwarder : One who forwards or promotes; a promoter.
Foryelde : To repay; to requite.
Fossilism : The science or state of fossils.
Foster : To be nourished or trained up together.
Foul : Covered with, or containing, extraneous matter which is injurious, noxious, offensive, or obstructive; filthy; dirty; not clean; polluted; nasty; defiled; as, a foul cloth; foul hands; a foul chimney; foul air; a ship's bottom is foul when overgrown with barnacles; a gun becomes foul from repeated firing; a well is foul with polluted water.
Foule : Foully.
Foundationer : One who derives support from the funds or foundation of a college or school.
Foundry : The act, process, or art of casting metals.
Fourchette : The frog of the hoof of the horse and allied animals.
Fourneau : The chamber of a mine in which the powder is placed.
Fourth : The interval of two tones and a semitone, embracing four diatonic degrees of the scale; the subdominant of any key.
Fowl : Any domesticated bird used as food, as a hen, turkey, duck; in a more restricted sense, the common domestic cock or hen (Gallus domesticus).
Fox : To turn sour; -- said of beer, etc., when it sours in fermenting.
Foxlike : Resembling a fox in his characteristic qualities; cunning; artful; foxy.
Frabbit : Crabbed; peevish.
Fraenums : of Frenum
Fragrance : Alt. of Fragrancy
Fraised : Fortified with a fraise.
Frame : A structure of four bars, adjustable in size, on which cloth, etc., is stretched for quilting, embroidery, etc.
Franchising : of Franchise
Frank : To shut up in a frank or sty; to pen up; hence, to cram; to fatten.
Frankish : Like, or pertaining to, the Franks.
Fraternate : To fraternize; to hold fellowship.
Fraud : Deception deliberately practiced with a view to gaining an unlawful or unfair advantage; artifice by which the right or interest of another is injured; injurious stratagem; deceit; trick.
Fraxin : A colorless crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and found in the bark of the ash (Fraxinus) and along with esculin in the bark of the horse-chestnut. It shows a delicate fluorescence in alkaline solutions; -- called also paviin.
Freckle : Any small spot or discoloration.
Free : Characteristic of one acting without restraint; charming; easy.
Freebooty : Freebootery.
Free-love : The doctrine or practice of consorting with the opposite sex, at pleasure, without marriage.
Freethinker : One who speculates or forms opinions independently of the authority of others; esp., in the sphere or religion, one who forms opinions independently of the authority of revelation or of the church; an unbeliever; -- a term assumed by deists and skeptics in the eighteenth century.
Freight : That with which anything in fraught or laden for transportation; lading; cargo, especially of a ship, or a car on a railroad, etc.; as, a freight of cotton; a full freight.
French : Of or pertaining to France or its inhabitants.
Frenzy : To affect with frenzy; to drive to madness
Frequently : At frequent or short intervals; many times; often; repeatedly; commonly.
Freshes : of Fresh
Fresh-new : Unpracticed.
Fret : Agitation of mind marked by complaint and impatience; disturbance of temper; irritation; as, he keeps his mind in a continual fret.
Freta : of Fretum
Friborg : Alt. of Friborgh
Friday : The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and preceding Saturday.
Friendly : Appropriate to, or implying, friendship; befitting friends; amicable.
Frigate-built : Built like a frigate with a raised quarter-deck and forecastle.
Frightment : Fear; terror.
Frill : A similar ruffle around the legs or other appendages of animals.
Fripper : One who deals in frippery or in old clothes.
Friskiness : State or quality of being frisky.
Fritter : A small quantity of batter, fried in boiling lard or in a frying pan. Fritters are of various kinds, named from the substance inclosed in the batter; as, apple fritters, clam fritters, oyster fritters.
Frizel : A movable furrowed piece of steel struck by the flint, to throw sparks into the pan, in an early form of flintlock.
Frog : An amphibious animal of the genus Rana and related genera, of many species. Frogs swim rapidly, and take long leaps on land. Many of the species utter loud notes in the springtime.
Frolicking : of Frolic
Frondose : Frond bearing; resembling a frond; having a simple expansion not separable into stem and leaves.
Frontage : The front part of an edifice or lot; extent of front.
Floatiersman : A man living on the frontier.
Frory : Covered with a froth like hoarfrost.
Frostily : In a frosty manner.
Froth : To spit, vent, or eject, as froth.
Frow : A cleaving tool with handle at right angles to the blade, for splitting cask staves and shingles from the block; a frower.
Frozenness : A state of being frozen.
Frue : A moving, inclined, endless apron on which ore is concentrated by a current of water; a kind of buddle.
Fruiter : A ship for carrying fruit.
Frump : A contemptuous speech or piece of conduct; a gibe or flout.
Frustratory : Making void; rendering null; as, a frustratory appeal.
Fry : To undergo or cause a disturbing action accompanied with a sensation of heat.
Fuchsia : A genus of flowering plants having elegant drooping flowers, with four sepals, four petals, eight stamens, and a single pistil. They are natives of Mexico and South America. Double-flowered varieties are now common in cultivation.
Fudge : A made-up story; stuff; nonsense; humbug; -- often an exclamation of contempt.
Fuga : A fugue.
Fugleman : Hence, one who leads the way.
Fulfilled : of Fulfill
Fulgury : Lightning.
Full : To thicken by moistening, heating, and pressing, as cloth; to mill; to make compact; to scour, cleanse, and thicken in a mill.
Full-hearted : Full of courage or confidence.
Fulminate : A salt of fulminic acid. See under Fulminic.
Fum : To play upon a fiddle.
Fume : Exhalation; volatile matter (esp. noxious vapor or smoke) ascending in a dense body; smoke; vapor; reek; as, the fumes of tobacco.
Fumetere : Fumitory.
Fumishness : Choler; fretfulness; passion.
Function : A quantity so connected with another quantity, that if any alteration be made in the latter there will be a consequent alteration in the former. Each quantity is said to be a function of the other. Thus, the circumference of a circle is a function of the diameter. If x be a symbol to which different numerical values can be assigned, such expressions as x2, 3x, Log. x, and Sin. x, are all functions of x.
Fundable : Capable of being funded, or converted into a fund; convertible into bonds.
Funeration : The act of burying with funeral rites.
Fungologist : A mycologist.
Funiliform : Resembling a cord in toughness and flexibility, as the roots of some endogenous trees.
Fur : A coat of morbid matter collected on the tongue in persons affected with fever.
Furbisher : One who furbishes; esp., a sword cutler, who finishes sword blades and similar weapons.
Furilic : Pertaining to, or derived from, furile; as, furilic acid.
Furnish : To supply with anything necessary, useful, or appropriate; to provide; to equip; to fit out, or fit up; to adorn; as, to furnish a family with provisions; to furnish one with arms for defense; to furnish a Cable; to furnish the mind with ideas; to furnish one with knowledge or principles; to furnish an expedition or enterprise, a room or a house.
Furring : Double planking of a ship's side.
Furthermore : or conj. Moreover; besides; in addition to what has been said.
Furzy : bounding in, or overgrown with, furze; characterized by furze.
Fusee : The cone or conical wheel of a watch or clock, designed to equalize the power of the mainspring by having the chain from the barrel which contains the spring wind in a spiral groove on the surface of the cone in such a manner that the diameter of the cone at the point where the chain acts may correspond with the degree of tension of the spring.
Fusion : The act or operation of melting or rendering fluid by heat; the act of melting together; as, the fusion of metals.
Fustian : An inflated style of writing; a kind of writing in which high-sounding words are used,' above the dignity of the thoughts or subject; bombast.
Futilous : Futile; trifling.
Fuzz : To fly off in minute particles.
Gabber : A liar; a deceiver.
Gabionade : A structure of gabions sunk in lines, as a core for a sand bar in harbor improvements.
Gadabout : A gadder
Gadoid : Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidae) which includes the cod, haddock, and hake.
Gaffle : An artificial spur or gaff for gamecocks.
Gage : To bind by pledge, or security; to engage.
Gain : Convenient; suitable; direct; near; handy; dexterous; easy; profitable; cheap; respectable.
Gainsaid : of Gainsay
Gaiter : To dress with gaiters.
Galanga : Alt. of Galangal
Galea : Headache extending all over the head.
Galician : Of or pertaining to Galicia, in Spain, or to Galicia, the kingdom of Austrian Poland.
Galling : of Gall
Gallantry : Splendor of appearance; ostentatious finery.
Galleys : of Galley
Galliardness : Gayety.
Gallinaceae : Same as Gallinae.
Galloped : of Gallop
Gallowglass : A heavy-armed foot soldier from Ireland and the Western Isles in the time of Edward /
Galpe : To gape,; to yawn.
Galvanography : The art or process of depositing metals by electricity; electrotypy.
Gambeson : Same as Gambison.
Gambol : To dance and skip about in sport; to frisk; to skip; to play in frolic, like boys or lambs.
Gamecock : The male game fowl.
Gammon : To make bacon of; to salt and dry in smoke.
Gane : To yawn; to gape.
Ganglion : A mass or knot of nervous matter, including nerve cells, usually forming an enlargement in the course of a nerve.
Gannister : A refractory material consisting of crushed or ground siliceous stone, mixed with fire clay; -- used for lining Bessemer converters; also used for macadamizing roads.
Gap : To notch, as a sword or knife.
Gapingstock : One who is an object of open-mouthed wonder.
Garble : To pick out such parts of as may serve a purpose; to mutilate; to pervert; as, to garble a quotation; to garble an account.
Gardenly : Like a garden.
Gargling : of Gargle
Garland : To deck with a garland.
Garnish : To furnish; to supply.
Gar : Alt. of Garpike
Garrote : To strangle with the garrote; hence, to seize by the throat, from behind, with a view to strangle and rob.
Gas : A complex mixture of gases, of which the most important constituents are marsh gas, olefiant gas, and hydrogen, artificially produced by the destructive distillation of gas coal, or sometimes of peat, wood, oil, resin, etc. It gives a brilliant light when burned, and is the common gas used for illuminating purposes.
Gash : A deep and long cut; an incision of considerable length and depth, particularly in flesh.
Gasoline : A highly volatile mixture of fluid hydrocarbons, obtained from petroleum, as also by the distillation of bituminous coal. It is used in making air gas, and in giving illuminating power to water gas. See Carburetor.
Gasteropod : Same as Gastropod.
Gastroduodenitis : Inflammation of the stomach and duodenum. It is one of the most frequent causes of jaundice.
Gastronomy : The art or science of good eating; epicurism; the art of good cheer.
Gastrulation : The process of invagination, in embryonic development, by which a gastrula is formed.
Gatepost : A post against which a gate closes; -- called also shutting post.
Gatherable : Capable of being gathered or collected; deducible from premises.
Gaud : To sport or keep festival.
Gauged : of Gauge
Gauging : See Gauge rod, under Gauge, n.
Gauziness : The quality of being gauzy; flimsiness.
Gawk : To act like a gawky.
Gazed : of Gaze
Gazetteer : A newspaper; a gazette.
Gear : See 1st Jeer (b).
Ged : Alt. of Gedd
Gelastic : Pertaining to laughter; used in laughing.
Gelded : of Geld
Gelseminic : Pertaining to, or derived from, the yellow jasmine (Gelsemium sempervirens); as, gelseminic acid, a white crystalline substance resembling esculin.
Gemellipa-rous : Producing twins.
Gemmeous : Pertaining to gems; of the nature of gems; resembling gems.
Gemmy : Spruce; smart.
Gendering : of Gender
General : Having a relation to all; common to the whole; as, Adam, our general sire.
Generalize : To apply to other genera or classes; to use with a more extensive application; to extend so as to include all special cases; to make universal in application, as a formula or rule.
Generate : To cause to be; to bring into life.
Generically : With regard to a genus, or an extensive class; as, an animal generically distinct from another, or two animals or plants generically allied.
Genet : A small-sized, well-proportioned, Spanish horse; a jennet.
Genial : Contributing to, or concerned in, propagation or production; generative; procreative; productive.
Genista : A genus of plants including the common broom of Western Europe.
Genoese : A native or inhabitant of Genoa; collectively, the people of Genoa.
Gentianella : A kind of blue color.
Gentilize : To live like a gentile or heathen.
Gentlemen : of Gentleman
Gentry : Birth; condition; rank by birth.
Geocronite : A lead-gray or grayish blue mineral with a metallic luster, consisting of sulphur, antimony, and lead, with a small proportion of arsenic.
Geognostical : Of or pertaining to geognosy, or to a knowledge of the structure of the earth; geological.
Geologizing : of Geologize
Geometrizing : of Geometrize
Georgic : A rural poem; a poetical composition on husbandry, containing rules for cultivating lands, etc.; as, the Georgics of Virgil.
Geranine : A liquid terpene, obtained from the crane's-bill (Geranium maculatum), and having a peculiar mulberry odor.
Germans : of German
Germens : of Germen
Germule : A small germ.
Gesling : A gosling.
Gesticulate : To make gestures or motions, as in speaking; to use postures.
Got : of Get
Getterup : One who contrives, makes, or arranges for, anything, as a book, a machine, etc.
Ghawazi : Egyptian dancing girls, of a lower sort than the almeh.
Ghostly : Of or pertaining to apparitions.
Gib : A piece or slip of metal or wood, notched or otherwise, in a machine or structure, to hold other parts in place or bind them together, or to afford a bearing surface; -- usually held or adjusted by means of a wedge, key, or screw.
Gib : See Jib boom.
Gid : A disease of sheep, characterized by vertigo; the staggers. It is caused by the presence of the C/nurus, a larval tapeworm, in the brain. See C/nurus.
Giffy : See Jiffy.
Gigantesque : Befitting a giant; bombastic; magniloquent.
Giggyng : The act of fastending the gige or leather strap to the shield.
Guilding : Gold in leaf, powder, or liquid, for application to any surface.
Gillyflower : A kind of apple, of a roundish conical shape, purplish red color, and having a large core.
Gimcrack : A trivial mechanism; a device; a toy; a pretty thing.
Gin : To begin; -- often followed by an infinitive without to; as, gan tell. See Gan.
Gingle : See Jingle.
Gipser : Alt. of Gipsire
Gird : To make fast, as clothing, by binding with a cord, girdle, bandage, etc.
Girdler : A maker of girdles.
Girt : To gird; to encircle; to invest by means of a girdle; to measure the girth of; as, to girt a tree.
Gittern : To play on gittern.
Give : To give a gift or gifts.
Glabella : The space between the eyebrows, also including the corresponding part of the frontal bone; the mesophryon.
Glad : Pleased; joyous; happy; cheerful; gratified; -- opposed to sorry, sorrowful, or unhappy; -- said of persons, and often followed by of, at, that, or by the infinitive, and sometimes by with, introducing the cause or reason.
Gladiatorial : Alt. of Gladiatorian
Gladwyn : See Gladen.
Glance : A quick cast of the eyes; a quick or a casual look; a swift survey; a glimpse.
Gland : The crosspiece of a bayonet clutch.
Glaring : of Glare
Glass : A drinking vessel; a tumbler; a goblet; hence, the contents of such a vessel; especially; spirituous liquors; as, he took a glass at dinner.
Glassiness : The quality of being glassy.
Glaucic : Of or pertaining to the Glaucium or horned poppy; -- formerly applied to an acid derived from it, now known to be fumaric acid.
Glazing : of Glase
Gleam : Brightness; splendor.
Glebe : Turf; soil; ground; sod.
Gleen : To glisten; to gleam.
Glib : Smooth; slippery; as, ice is glib.
Gliden : p. p. of Glide.
Glimpse : to appear by glimpses; to catch glimpses.
Glisteringly : In a glistering manner.
Globe : A round or spherical body, solid or hollow; a body whose surface is in every part equidistant from the center; a ball; a sphere.
Globularity : The state of being globular; globosity; sphericity.
Glome : One of the two prominences at the posterior extremity of the frog of the horse's foot.
Gloomed : of Gloom
Glorification : The state of being glorifed; as, the glorification of Christ after his resurrection.
Glory : To boast; to be proud.
Glossarially : In the manner of a glossary.
Glossolalia : Alt. of Glossolaly
Glove : A boxing glove.
Glowingly : In a glowing manner; with ardent heat or passion.
Glucose : A variety of sugar occurring in nature very abundantly, as in ripe grapes, and in honey, and produced in great quantities from starch, etc., by the action of heat and acids. It is only about half as sweet as cane sugar. Called also dextrose, grape sugar, diabetic sugar, and starch sugar. See Dextrose.
Glumella : Alt. of Glumelle
Glut : An arched opening to the ashpit of a klin.
Glutinous : Havig a moist and adhesive or sticky surface, as a leaf or gland.
Glycerol : Same as Glycerin.
Glycolyl : A divalent, compound radical, CO.CH2, regarded as the essential radical of glycolic acid, and a large series of related compounds.
Glyphographic : Of or pertaining to glyphography.
Gnarl : a knot in wood; a large or hard knot, or a protuberance with twisted grain, on a tree.
GnathothecAe : of Gnathotheca
Gnome : A dwarf; a goblin; a person of small stature or misshapen features, or of strange appearance.
Gnoscopine : An alkaloid existing in small quantities in opium.
Go : To move from the person speaking, or from the point whence the action is contemplated; to pass away; to leave; to depart; -- in opposition to stay and come.
Goaf : That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partially or wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob .
Gobbet : A mouthful; a lump; a small piece.
Goblin : An evil or mischievous spirit; a playful or malicious elf; a frightful phantom; a gnome.
Godfather : To act as godfather to; to take under one's fostering care.
Godsib : A gossip.
Goggling : of Goggle
Goitered : Alt. of Goitred
Golden-rod : A tall herb (Solidago Virga-aurea), bearing yellow flowers in a graceful elongated cluster. The name is common to all the species of the genus Solidago.
Goldylocks : A plant of several species of the genus Chrysocoma; -- so called from the tufts of yellow flowers which terminate the stems; also, the Ranunculus auricomus, a kind of buttercup.
Gome : A man.
Gone : p. p. of Go.
Goniometer : An instrument for measuring angles, especially the angles of crystals, or the inclination of planes.
Gonothec/ : of Gonotheca
Good : To make good; to turn to good.
Goodman : "A familiar appellation of civility, equivalent to ""My friend"", ""Good sir"", ""Mister;"" -- sometimes used ironically."
Goosander : A species of merganser (M. merganser) of Northern Europe and America; -- called also merganser, dundiver, sawbill, sawneb, shelduck, and sheldrake. See Merganser.
Goot : A goat.
Gordius : A genus of long, slender, nematoid worms, parasitic in insects until near maturity, when they leave the insect, and live in water, in which they deposit their eggs; -- called also hair eel, hairworm, and hair snake, from the absurd, but common and widely diffused, notion that they are metamorphosed horsehairs.
Gorge : The groove of a pulley.
Gorgon : Anything very ugly or horrid.
Gorma : The European cormorant.
Gospel : A selection from one of the gospels, for use in a religious service; as, the gospel for the day.
Gossib : A gossip.
Goter : a gutter.
Gouache : A method of painting with opaque colors, which have been ground in water and mingled with a preparation of gum; also, a picture thus painted.
Gour : See Koulan.
Goutiness : The state of being gouty; gout.
Governante : A governess.
Gowany : Having, abounding in, or decked with, daisies.
Graal : See Grail., a dish.
Grace : The title of a duke, a duchess, or an archbishop, and formerly of the king of England.
Gracious : Abounding in beauty, loveliness, or amiability; graceful; excellent.
Grade : The rate of ascent or descent; gradient; deviation from a level surface to an inclined plane; -- usually stated as so many feet per mile, or as one foot rise or fall in so many of horizontal distance; as, a heavy grade; a grade of twenty feet per mile, or of 1 in 264.
Grading : The act or method of arranging in or by grade, or of bringing, as the surface of land or a road, to the desired level or grade.
Graduate : One who has received an academical or professional degree; one who has completed the prescribed course of study in any school or institution of learning.
Graft : A branch or portion of a tree growing from such a shoot.
Grail : One of the small feathers of a hawk.
Grain : To take the hair off (skins); to soften and raise the grain of (leather, etc.).
Graining : The process of separating soap from spent lye, as with salt.
Gram : Alt. of Gramme
Grammarian : One who writes on, or teaches, grammar.
Granado : See Grenade.
Grand-ducal : Of or pertaining to a grand duke.
Grandniece : The granddaughter of one's brother or sister.
Granite : A crystalline, granular rock, consisting of quartz, feldspar, and mica, and usually of a whitish, grayish, or flesh-red color. It differs from gneiss in not having the mica in planes, and therefore in being destitute of a schistose structure.
Grant : The thing or property granted; a gift; a boon.
Granulation : The act or process of the formation of such prominences.
Graphical : Written or engraved; formed of letters or lines.
Grapple : To seize; to lay fast hold of; to attack at close quarters: as, to grapple an antagonist.
Grasp : Reach of the arms; hence, the power of seizing and holding; as, it was beyond his grasp.
Grass-green : Green with grass.
Grate : To fret; to irritate; to offend.
Grating : The strong wooden lattice used to cover a hatch, admitting light and air; also, a movable Lattice used for the flooring of boats.
Gravamens : of Gravamen
Graveclothes : The clothes or dress in which the dead are interred.
Gravelly : Abounding with gravel; consisting of gravel; as, a gravelly soil.
Gravigrade : Slow-paced.
Gravity : Lowness of tone; -- opposed to acuteness.
Grayness : The quality of being gray.
Gre : See Gree, good will.
Great : Large in space; of much size; big; immense; enormous; expanded; -- opposed to small and little; as, a great house, ship, farm, plain, distance, length.
Great-hearted : High-spirited; fearless.
Grecizing : of Grecize
Greediness : The quality of being greedy; vehement and selfish desire.
Green : A grassy plain or plat; a piece of ground covered with verdant herbage; as, the village green.
Greengage : A kind of plum of medium size, roundish shape, greenish flesh, and delicious flavor. It is called in France Reine Claude, after the queen of Francis I. See Gage.
Greenockite : Native cadmium sulphide, a mineral occurring in yellow hexagonal crystals, also as an earthy incrustation.
Greet : Greeting.
Greisen : A crystalline rock consisting of quarts and mica, common in the tin regions of Cornwall and Saxony.
Grete : Great.
Gridelin : A color mixed of white, and red, or a gray violet.
Grieve : To feel grief; to be in pain of mind on account of an evil; to sorrow; to mourn; -- often followed by at, for, or over.
Gril : Harsh; hard; severe; stern; rough.
Griminess : The state of being grimy.
Grind : To perform the operation of grinding something; to turn the millstones.
Grinner : One who grins.
Gripe : To suffer griping pains.
Gripsack : A traveler's handbag.
Grist : Supply; provision.
Gritty : Spirited; resolute; unyielding.
Grocer : A trader who deals in tea, sugar, spices, coffee, fruits, and various other commodities.
Groin : A frame of woodwork across a beach to accumulate and retain shingle.
Groomsman : A male attendant of a bridegroom at his wedding; -- the correlative of bridesmaid.
Grosbeak : One of various species of finches having a large, stout beak. The common European grosbeak or hawfinch is Coccothraustes vulgaris.
Grossularia : Same as Grossular.
Ground : In point lace, the net of small meshes upon which the embroidered pattern is applied; as, Brussels ground. See Brussels lace, under Brussels.
Grounding : The act, method, or process of laying a groundwork or foundation; hence, elementary instruction; the act or process of applying a ground, as of color, to wall paper, cotton cloth, etc.; a basis.
Grouper : One of several species of valuable food fishes of the genus Epinephelus, of the family Serranidae, as the red grouper, or brown snapper (E. morio), and the black grouper, or warsaw (E. nigritus), both from Florida and the Gulf of Mexico.
Groveled : of Grovel
Grower : One who grows or produces; as, a grower of corn; also, that which grows or increases; as, a vine may be a rank or a slow grower.
Grubbing : of Grub
Grudge : Sullen malice or malevolence; cherished malice, enmity, or dislike; ill will; an old cause of hatred or quarrel.
Grumble : To growl; to snarl in deep tones; as, a lion grumbling over his prey.
Grunt : A deep, guttural sound, as of a hog.
Grysbok : A small South African antelope (Neotragus melanotis). It is speckled with gray and chestnut, above; the under parts are reddish fawn.
Guara : The scarlet ibis. See Ibis.
Guard : To protect from danger; to secure against surprise, attack, or injury; to keep in safety; to defend; to shelter; to shield from surprise or attack; to protect by attendance; to accompany for protection; to care for.
Guardable : Capable of being guarded or protected.
Guardroom : The room occupied by the guard during its term of duty; also, a room where prisoners are confined.
Gue : A sharper; a rogue.
Guerrilla : Pertaining to, or engaged in, warfare carried on irregularly and by independent bands; as, a guerrilla party; guerrilla warfare.
Guest : The line by which a boat makes fast to the swinging boom.
Guide : A person who leads or directs another in his way or course, as in a strange land; one who exhibits points of interest to strangers; a conductor; also, that which guides; a guidebook.
Guild : A religious association or society, organized for charitable purposes or for assistance in parish work.
Guilt : Exposure to any legal penalty or forfeiture.
Guitguit : One of several species of small tropical American birds of the family Coerebidae, allied to the creepers; -- called also quit. See Quit.
Gulf : A portion of an ocean or sea extending into the land; a partially land-locked sea; as, the Gulf of Mexico.
Gullible : Easily gulled; that may be duped.
Guly : Of or pertaining to gules; red.
Gummite : A yellow amorphous mineral, essentially a hydrated oxide of uranium derived from the alteration of uraninite.
Gunlock : The lock of a gun, for producing the discharge. See Lock.
Gunsmith : One whose occupation is to make or repair small firearms; an armorer.
Gurgling-ly : In a gurgling manner.
Gushing : Rushing forth with violence, as a fluid; flowing copiously; as, gushing waters.
Gustatory : Pertaining to, or subservient to, the sense of taste; as, the gustatory nerve which supplies the front of the tongue.
Guttated : Besprinkled with drops, or droplike spots.
Gutturality : The quality of being guttural.
Guzzle : To swallow liquor greedily; to drink much or frequently.
Gymnast : One who teaches or practices gymnastic exercises; the manager of a gymnasium; an athlete.
Gymnoglossa : A division of gastropods in which the odontophore is without teeth.
Gynaecian : The same as Gynecian.
Gynobase : A dilated base or receptacle, supporting a multilocular ovary.
Gypsy : A cunning or crafty person
Gyrencephala : The higher orders of Mammalia, in which the cerebrum is convoluted.
Gyrostatic : Of or pertaining to the gyrostat or to gyrostatics.
Haberdine : A cod salted and dried.
Habitability : Habitableness.
Habituate : To make accustomed; to accustom; to familiarize.
Hack : To cough faintly and frequently, or in a short, broken manner; as, a hacking cough.
Hackery : A cart with wooden wheels, drawn by bullocks.
Hackneyed : of Hackney
Haecceity : Literally, this-ness. A scholastic term to express individuality or singleness; as, this book.
Haemapoietic : Bloodforming; as, the haemapoietic function of the spleen.
Haematogenic : Relating to haematogenesis.
Haematothorax : Same as Hemothorax.
Haemoglobinometer : Same as Hemochromometer.
Hag : An eel-like marine marsipobranch (Myxine glutinosa), allied to the lamprey. It has a suctorial mouth, with labial appendages, and a single pair of gill openings. It is the type of the order Hyperotpeta. Called also hagfish, borer, slime eel, sucker, and sleepmarken.
Haggard : A stackyard.
Hagiolatry : The invocation or worship of saints.
Hail : Healthy. See Hale (the preferable spelling).
Hair : A spring device used in a hair-trigger firearm.
Hair-salt : A variety of native Epsom salt occurring in silky fibers.
Halation : An appearance as of a halo of light, surrounding the edges of dark objects in a photographic picture.
Half : One of two equal parts into which anything may be divided, or considered as divided; -- sometimes followed by of; as, a half of an apple.
Halfcock : To set the cock of (a firearm) at the first notch.
Half-moon : The moon at the quarters, when half its disk appears illuminated.
Half-witted : Weak in intellect; silly.
Hall : Any corridor or passage in a building.
Halloo : To call or shout to; to hail.
Halo : An ideal glory investing, or affecting one's perception of, an object.
Halse : To embrace about the neck; to salute; to greet.
Halter : A rope or strap, with or without a headstall, for leading or tying a horse.
Ham : The region back of the knee joint; the popliteal space; the hock.
Haminura : A large edible river fish (Erythrinus macrodon) of Guiana.
Hammerable : Capable of being formed or shaped by a hammer.
Hampering : of Hamper
Hanaper : A kind of basket, usually of wickerwork, and adapted for the packing and carrying of articles; a hamper.
Hand : A bundle of tobacco leaves tied together.
-men : of Handcraftsman
Handful : A hand's breadth; four inches.
Handkerchief : A piece of cloth shaped like a handkerchief to be worn about the neck; a neckerchief; a neckcloth.
Handmaiden : A maid that waits at hand; a female servant or attendant.
Handspring : A somersault made with the assistance of the hands placed upon the ground.
Hang : To fit properly, as at a proper angle (a part of an implement that is swung in using), as a scythe to its snath, or an ax to its helve.
Hangdog : A base, degraded person; a sneak; a gallows bird.
Hangnail : A small piece or silver of skin which hangs loose, near the root of finger nail.
Hanse : That part of an elliptical or many-centered arch which has the shorter radius and immediately adjoins the impost.
Happed : Wrapped; covered; cloaked.
Haranguing : of Harangue
Harbor : The mansion of a heavenly body.
Hard : Not easy or agreeable to the taste; stiff; rigid; ungraceful; repelling; as, a hard style.
Harden : To become hard or harder; to acquire solidity, or more compactness; as, mortar hardens by drying.
Hardhead : Block's gurnard (Trigla gurnardus) of Europe.
Hardly : Confidently; hardily.
Hardy : Strong; firm; compact.
Hare's-tail : A kind of grass (Eriophorum vaginatum). See Cotton grass, under Cotton.
Harlot : A churl; a common man; a person, male or female, of low birth.
Harmless : Free from harm; unhurt; as, to give bond to save another harmless.
Harmonist : One who understands the principles of harmony or is skillful in applying them in composition; a musical composer.
Harmony : See Harmonic suture, under Harmonic.
Harp : To dwell on or recur to a subject tediously or monotonously in speaking or in writing; to refer to something repeatedly or continually; -- usually with on or upon.
Harpy : A fabulous winged monster, ravenous and filthy, having the face of a woman and the body of a vulture, with long claws, and the face pale with hunger. Some writers mention two, others three.
Harrower : One who harrows.
Harts : Melilot or sweet clover. See Melilot.
Harvest-home : The song sung by reapers at the feast made at the close of the harvest; the feast itself.
Hask : A basket made of rushes or flags, as for carrying fish.
Hasten : To press; to drive or urge forward; to push on; to precipitate; to accelerate the movement of; to expedite; to hurry.
Hasty : A batter or pudding made of flour or oatmeal, stirred into boiling water or milk.
Hatch : A bedstead.
Hatching : A mode of execution in engraving, drawing, and miniature painting, in which shading is produced by lines crossing each other at angles more or less acute; -- called also crosshatching.
Hatte : pres. & imp. sing. & pl. of Hote, to be called. See Hote.
Haul : To pull or draw with force; to drag.
Haunched : Having haunches.
Haustellum : The sucking proboscis of various insects. See Lepidoptera, and Diptera.
hast : of Have
Havenage : Harbor dues; port dues.
Haw : To stop, in speaking, with a sound like haw; to speak with interruption and hesitation.
Hawk : A small board, with a handle on the under side, to hold mortar.
Hawthorn : A thorny shrub or tree (the Crataegus oxyacantha), having deeply lobed, shining leaves, small, roselike, fragrant flowers, and a fruit called haw. It is much used in Europe for hedges, and for standards in gardens. The American hawthorn is Crataegus cordata, which has the leaves but little lobed.
Hayrake : A rake for collecting hay; especially, a large rake drawn by a horse or horses.
Hazarder : A player at the game of hazard; a gamester.
Hazily : In a hazy manner; mistily; obscurely; confusedly.
Head : Power; armed force.
Headache : Pain in the head; cephalalgia.
Headforemost : With the head foremost.
Headline : The line at the head or top of a page.
Headrace : See Race, a water course.
Headway : The progress made by a ship in motion; hence, progress or success of any kind.
Healingly : So as to heal or cure.
Heap : A crowd; a throng; a multitude or great number of persons.
Heard : imp. & p. p. of Hear.
Hearse : To inclose in a hearse; to entomb.
Heartburning : Causing discontent.
Heartily : With zeal; actively; vigorously; willingly; cordially; as, he heartily assisted the prince.
Heartstrike : To affect at heart; to shock.
Heat : A single complete operation of heating, as at a forge or in a furnace; as, to make a horseshoe in a certain number of heats.
Heathclad : Clad or crowned with heath.
Heathenize : To render heathen or heathenish.
Heave : To cause to swell or rise, as the breast or bosom.
Heavenly : By the influence or agency of heaven.
Heavy : Impeding motion; cloggy; clayey; -- said of earth; as, a heavy road, soil, and the like.
Hebenon : See Henbane.
Hebraize : To speak Hebrew, or to conform to the Hebrew idiom, or to Hebrew customs.
Hectare : A measure of area, or superficies, containing a hundred ares, or 10,000 square meters, and equivalent to 2.471 acres.
Hectorism : The disposition or the practice of a hector; a bullying.
Hedge : To shelter one's self from danger, risk, duty, responsibility, etc., as if by hiding in or behind a hedge; to skulk; to slink; to shirk obligations.
Heed : To mind; to consider.
Heel : A cyma reversa; -- so called by workmen.
Heeltapping : of Heeltap
Hegemonic : Alt. of Hegemonical
Heir : One who inherits, or is entitled to succeed to the possession of, any property after the death of its owner; one on whom the law bestows the title or property of another at the death of the latter.
Helenin : A neutral organic substance found in the root of the elecampane (Inula helenium), and extracted as a white crystalline or oily material, with a slightly bitter taste.
Heliconian : Like or pertaining to the butterflies of the genus Heliconius.
Heliometry : The apart or practice of measuring the diameters of heavenly bodies, their relative distances, etc. See Heliometer.
Helix : A nonplane curve whose tangents are all equally inclined to a given plane. The common helix is the curve formed by the thread of the ordinary screw. It is distinguished from the spiral, all the convolutions of which are in the plane.
Hellebore : A genus of perennial herbs (Helleborus) of the Crowfoot family, mostly having powerfully cathartic and even poisonous qualities. H. niger is the European black hellebore, or Christmas rose, blossoming in winter or earliest spring. H. officinalis was the officinal hellebore of the ancients.
Hellespontine : Of or pertaining to the Hellespont.
Helm : A helmet.
Helminthite : One of the sinuous tracks on the surfaces of many stones, and popularly considered as worm trails.
Help : To furnish with relief, as in pain or disease; to be of avail against; -- sometimes with of before a word designating the pain or disease, and sometimes having such a word for the direct object.
Helve : The lever at the end of which is the hammer head, in a forge hammer.
Hem : To border; to edge
Hematemesis : A vomiting of blood.
Hematophilia : A condition characterized by a tendency to profuse and uncontrollable hemorrhage from the slightest wounds.
Hemibranchi : An order of fishes having an incomplete or reduced branchial apparatus. It includes the sticklebacks, the flutemouths, and Fistularia.
Hemimetabolic : Having an incomplete metamorphosis, the larvae differing from the adults chiefly in laking wings, as in the grasshoppers and cockroaches.
Hemisected : of Hemisect
Hemitrope : That which is hemitropal in construction; (Crystallog.) a twin crystal having a hemitropal structure.
Hemostatic : Serving to arrest hemorrhage; styptic.
Hence : From this reason; as an inference or deduction.
Henfish : A young bib. See Bib, n., 2.
Henrys : of Henry
Hepatization : Impregnating with sulphureted hydrogen gas.
Heptachord : A composition sung to the sound of seven chords or tones.
Heptarchy : A government by seven persons; also, a country under seven rulers.
Herald : A proclaimer; one who, or that which, publishes or announces; as, the herald of another's fame.
Herbal : A collection of specimens of plants, dried and preserved; a hortus siccus; an herbarium.
Herbist : A herbalist.
Herculean : Requiring the strength of Hercules; hence, very great, difficult, or dangerous; as, an Herculean task.
Herdic : A kind of low-hung cab.
Hereby : By means of this.
Heren : Made of hair.
Heretog : The leader or commander of an army; also, a marshal.
Herma : See Hermes, 2.
Hermit : A person who retires from society and lives in solitude; a recluse; an anchoret; especially, one who so lives from religious motives.
Hero : A man of distinguished valor or enterprise in danger, or fortitude in suffering; a prominent or central personage in any remarkable action or event; hence, a great or illustrious person.
Heroologist : One who treats of heroes.
Herse : See Hearse, a carriage for the dead.
Hesitatingly : With hesitation or doubt.
Hesperus : Evening.
Heterocarpism : The power of producing two kinds of reproductive bodies, as in Amphicarpaea, in which besides the usual pods, there are others underground.
Heterodont : Having the teeth differentiated into incisors, canines, and molars, as in man; -- opposed to homodont.
Heterogenetic : Relating to heterogenesis; as, heterogenetic transformations.
Heteromorphous : Heteromorphic.
Heteroplastic : Producing a different type of organism; developing into a different form of tissue, as cartilage which develops into bone.
Heterotricha : A division of ciliated Infusoria, having fine cilia all over the body, and a circle of larger ones around the anterior end.
Hew : Hue; color.
Hexagon : A plane figure of six angles.
Hexandrian : Alt. of Hex-androus
Hexdecyl : The essential radical, C16H33, of hecdecane.
Heyne : A wretch; a rascal.
Hiberno-Celtic : The native language of the Irish; that branch of the Celtic languages spoken by the natives of Ireland. Also adj.
Hid : of Hide
Hider : One who hides or conceals.
Hierocracy : Government by ecclesiastics; a hierarchy.
Hieromancy : Divination by observing the objects offered in sacrifice.
High : Elevated above any starting point of measurement, as a line, or surface; having altitude; lifted up; raised or extended in the direction of the zenith; lofty; tall; as, a high mountain, tower, tree; the sun is high.
Highborn : Of noble birth.
High-go : A spree; a revel.
High-pressure : Fig.: Urgent; intense; as, a high-pressure business or social life.
High-swelling : Inflated; boastful.
High-wrought : Wrought with fine art or skill; elaborate.
Hill : To surround with earth; to heap or draw earth around or upon; as, to hill corn.
Himselven : Themselves. See Hemself.
Hinderest : Hindermost; -- superl. of Hind, a.
Hinge : The hook with its eye, or the joint, on which a door, gate, lid, etc., turns or swings; a flexible piece, as a strip of leather, which serves as a joint to turn on.
Hint : A remote allusion; slight mention; intimation; insinuation; a suggestion or reminder, without a full declaration or explanation; also, an occasion or motive.
Hippobosca : A genus of dipterous insects including the horsefly or horse tick.
Hippophagi : Eaters of horseflesh.
Hircinous : Of a strong goatish smell.
Hirtellous : Pubescent with minute and somewhat rigid hairs.
Hiss : To utter with a hissing sound.
Histologic : Alt. of Histological
Historiographership : The office of an historiographer.
Hitting : of Hit
Hitch : A catch; anything that holds, as a hook; an impediment; an obstacle; an entanglement.
Hived : of Hive
Hoar : To become moldy or musty.
Hoarseness : Harshness or roughness of voice or sound, due to mucus collected on the vocal cords, or to swelling or looseness of the cords.
Hobanob : Alt. of Hobandnob
Hobbies : of Hobby
Hobnob : Familiar, social intercourse.
Hockle : To mow, as stubble.
Hodman : A man who carries a hod; a mason's tender.
Hog : To cut short like bristles; as, to hog the mane of a horse.
Hogget : A young boar of the second year.
Hogsty : A pen, house, or inclosure, for hogs.
Hoistway : An opening for the hoist, or elevator, in the floor of a wareroom.
Hold : To consider; to regard; to esteem; to account; to think; to judge.
Holder : One who holds land, etc., under another; a tenant.
Holiday : A day of exemption from labor; a day of amusement and gayety; a festival day.
Holloed : of Hollo
Hollowness : State of being hollow.
Holocryptic : Wholly or completely concealing; incapable of being deciphered.
Holostomate : Same as Holostomatous.
Holy : Spiritually whole or sound; of unimpaired innocence and virtue; free from sinful affections; pure in heart; godly; pious; irreproachable; guiltless; acceptable to God.
Homatropine : An alkaloid, prepared from atropine, and from other sources. It is chemically related to atropine, and is used for the same purpose.
Home-driven : Driven to the end, as a nail; driven close.
Homeopath : A practitioner of homeopathy.
Homeward : Being in the direction of home; as, the homeward way.
Hommock : A small eminence of a conical form, of land or of ice; a knoll; a hillock. See Hummock.
Homoeomeric : Alt. of Homoeomerical
Homogeneousness : Sameness 9kind or nature; uniformity of structure or material.
Homologation : Confirmation or ratification (as of something otherwise null and void), by a court or a grantor.
Homomorphism : The possession, in one species of plants, of only one kind of flowers; -- opposed to heteromorphism, dimorphism, and trimorphism.
Homophonous : Expressing the same sound by a different combination of letters; as, bay and bey.
Homotaxic : Relating to homotaxis.
Honed : of Hone
Honeyed : of Honey
Honeysuckled : Covered with honeysuckles.
Honor : The ace, king, queen, and jack of trumps. The ten and nine are sometimes called Dutch honors.
Honorary : An honorary payment, usually in recognition of services for which it is not usual or not lawful to assign a fixed business price.
Hood : The top or head of a carriage.
Hoodman : The person blindfolded in the game called hoodman-blind.
Hook : That part of a hinge which is fixed to a post, and on which a door or gate hangs and turns.
Hooker : A sailor's contemptuous term for any antiquated craft.
Hoop : To utter a loud cry, or a sound imitative of the word, by way of call or pursuit; to shout.
Hoven : Affected with hoove; as, hooven, or hoven, cattle.
Hoped : of Hope
Hopper : See Grasshopper, 2.
Hop-thumb : See Hop-o'-my-thumb.
Horizontal : Pertaining to, or near, the horizon.
Horn : One of the projections at the four corners of the Jewish altar of burnt offering.
Horner : One who works or deal in horn or horns.
Hornstone : A siliceous stone, a variety of quartz, closely resembling flint, but more brittle; -- called also chert.
Horologist : One versed in horology.
Horrid : Rough; rugged; bristling.
Horse : The male of the genus horse, in distinction from the female or male; usually, a castrated male.
Horse-chestnut : The large nutlike seed of a species of Aesculus (Ae. Hippocastanum), formerly ground, and fed to horses, whence the name.
Horse-jockey : A trainer and dealer in horses.
Horse : A machine worked by a horse, for driving other machinery; a horse motor.
Horsy : Pertaining to, or suggestive of, a horse, or of horse racing; as, horsy manners; garments of fantastically horsy fashions.
Hosen : See Hose.
Hospitate : To receive with hospitality; to lodge as a guest.
Hostile : Belonging or appropriate to an enemy; showing the disposition of an enemy; showing ill will and malevolence, or a desire to thwart and injure; occupied by an enemy or enemies; inimical; unfriendly; as, a hostile force; hostile intentions; a hostile country; hostile to a sudden change.
Hotbed : A bed of earth heated by fermenting manure or other substances, and covered with glass, intended for raising early plants, or for nourishing exotics.
Hotel-Dieu : A hospital.
Hotspur : Alt. of Hotspurred
Hounding : of Hound
Houses : of House
House : To take shelter or lodging; to abide to dwell; to lodge.
Housel : The eucharist.
Housing : The act of putting or receiving under shelter; the state of dwelling in a habitation.
Hovel : A large conical brick structure around which the firing kilns are grouped.
How : For what reason; from what cause.
Howling : of Howl
Hoyman : One who navigates a hoy.
Huckleberry : The edible black or dark blue fruit of several species of the American genus Gaylussacia, shrubs nearly related to the blueberries (Vaccinium), and formerly confused with them. The commonest huckelberry comes from G. resinosa.
Hudsonian : Of or pertaining to Hudson's Bay or to the Hudson River; as, the Hudsonian curlew.
Huffiness : The state of being huffish; petulance; bad temper.
Huguenot : A French Protestant of the period of the religious wars in France in the 16th century.
Hull : To strip off or separate the hull or hulls of; to free from integument; as, to hull corn.
Hum : To flatter by approving; to cajole; to impose on; to humbug.
Humanist : One who purposes the study of the humanities, or polite literature.
Humanized : of Humanize
Humble : To make humble or lowly in mind; to abase the pride or arrogance of; to reduce the self-sufficiently of; to make meek and submissive; -- often used rexlexively.
Humect : Alt. of Humectate
Humiliation : The act of humiliating or humbling; abasement of pride; mortification.
Hummum : A sweating bath or place for sweating.
Humorize : To humor.
Humped : Having a hump, as the back.
Hundred : Ten times ten; five score; as, a hundred dollars.
Hunger-bit : Alt. of Hunger-bitten
Hunt : To drive; to chase; -- with down, from, away, etc.; as, to hunt down a criminal; he was hunted from the parish.
Huntress : A woman who hunts or follows the chase; as, the huntress Diana.
Hurl : To send whirling or whizzing through the air; to throw with violence; to drive with great force; as, to hurl a stone or lance.
Hurons : ; sing. Huron. (Ethnol.) A powerful and warlike tribe of North American Indians of the Algonquin stock. They formerly occupied the country between Lakes Huron, Erie, and Ontario, but were nearly exterminated by the Five Nations about 1650.
Hurry : The act of hurrying in motion or business; pressure; urgency; bustle; confusion.
Hurtle : To move rapidly; to wheel or rush suddenly or with violence; to whirl round rapidly; to skirmish.
Husbandmen : of Husbandman
Husked : Stripped of husks; deprived of husks.
Hustling : of Hustle
Hutching : of Hutch
Hyacinthian : Hyacinthine.
Hybernate : Alt. of Hybernation
Hydatid : A membranous sac or bladder filled with a pellucid fluid, found in various parts of the bodies of animals, but unconnected with the tissues. It is usually formed by parasitic worms, esp. by larval tapeworms, as Echinococcus and Coenurus. See these words in the Vocabulary.
Hydrant : A discharge pipe with a valve and spout at which water may be drawn from the mains of waterworks; a water plug.
Hydrazine : Any one of a series of nitrogenous bases, resembling the amines and produced by the reduction of certain nitroso and diazo compounds; as, methyl hydrazine, phenyl hydrazine, etc. They are derivatives of hydrazine proper, H2N.NH2, which is a doubled amido group, recently (1887) isolated as a stable, colorless gas, with a peculiar, irritating odor. As a base it forms distinct salts. Called also diamide, amidogen, (or more properly diamidogen), etc.
Hydrocarbon : A compound containing only hydrogen and carbon, as methane, benzene, etc.; also, by extension, any of their derivatives.
Hydrodynamic : Alt. of Hydrodynamical
Hydrogenized : of Hydrogenize
Hydromagnesite : A hydrous carbonate of magnesia occurring in white, early, amorphous masses.
Hydrometry : The art of determining the specific gravity of liquids, and thence the strength of spirituous liquors, saline solutions, etc.
Hydrophyllia : of Hydrophyllium
Hydroscope : A kind of water clock, used anciently for measuring time, the water tricking from an orifice at the end of a graduated tube.
Hydrothecas : of Hydrotheca
Hydrozoal : Of or pertaining to the Hydrozoa.
Hygeist : One skilled in hygiena; a hygienist.
Hygroscope : An instrument which shows whether there is more or less moisture in the atmosphere, without indicating its amount.
Hylotheism : The doctrine of belief that matter is God, or that there is no God except matter and the universe; pantheism. See Materialism.
Hymenoptera : An extensive order of insects, including the bees, ants, ichneumons, sawflies, etc.
Hymnology : A knowledge of hymns; a treatise on hymns.
Hyoscyamus : A genus of poisonous plants of the Nightshade family; henbane.
Hyper- : A prefix equivalent to super- or per-; as hyperoxide, or peroxide. [Obs.] See Per-.
Hyperbolize : To speak or write with exaggeration.
Hyperdicrotism : A hyperdicrotic condition.
Hyperorthodoxy : Orthodoxy pushed to excess.
Hypertrophic : Alt. of Hypertrophical
Hypnotic : Having the quality of producing sleep; tending to produce sleep; soporific.
Hypobole : A figure in which several things are mentioned that seem to make against the argument, or in favor of the opposite side, each of them being refuted in order.
Hypochondrium : Either of the hypochondriac regions.
Hypoderma : A layer of tissue beneath the epidermis in plants, and performing the physiological function of strengthening the epidermal tissue. In phanerogamous plants it is developed as collenchyma.
Hypogynous : Inserted below the pistil or pistils; -- said of sepals, petals, and stamens; having the sepals, petals, and stamens inserted below the pistil; -- said of a flower or a plant.
Hypoptilum : An accessory plume arising from the posterior side of the stem of the contour feathers of many birds; -- called also aftershaft. See Illust. of Feather.
Hyposterna : of Hyposternum
Hypothecating : of Hypothecate
Hypoxanthin : A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, closely related to xanthin and uric acid, widely distributed through the animal body, but especially in muscle tissue; -- called also sarcin, sarkin.
Hysteranthous : Having the leaves expand after the flowers have opened.
I- : See Y-.
Ianthinas : of Ianthina
Ice : Water or other fluid frozen or reduced to the solid state by cold; frozen water. It is a white or transparent colorless substance, crystalline, brittle, and viscoidal. Its specific gravity (0.92, that of water at 4  C. being 1.0) being less than that of water, ice floats.
Iceland : A kind of lichen (Cetraria Icelandica) found from the Arctic regions to the North Temperate zone. It furnishes a nutritious jelly and other forms of food, and is used in pulmonary complaints as a demulcent.
Ichnology : The branch of science which treats of fossil footprints.
Ichthyologic : Alt. of Ichthyological
Ichthyosaurian : One of the Ichthyosauria.
Iconoclastic : Of or pertaining to the iconoclasts, or to image breaking.
-ics : A suffix used in forming the names of certain sciences, systems, etc., as acoustics, mathematics, dynamics, statistics, politics, athletics.
Ideas : of Idea
Idealistic : Of or pertaining to idealists or their theories.
Ideation : The faculty or capacity of the mind for forming ideas; the exercise of this capacity; the act of the mind by which objects of sense are apprehended and retained as objects of thought.
Ideo- : A combining form from the Gr. /, an idea.
Idiocrasis : Idiocracy.
Idiomorphous : Apperaing in distinct crystals; -- said of the mineral constituents of a rock.
Idiotcy : Idiocy.
Idle : To lose or spend time in inaction, or without being employed in business.
Idolatress : A female worshiper of idols.
Idolizer : One who idolizes or loves to the point of reverence; an idolater.
Igloo : A cavity, or excavation, made in the snow by a seal, over its breathing hole in the ice.
Ignite : To subject to the action of intense heat; to heat strongly; -- often said of incombustible or infusible substances; as, to ignite iron or platinum.
Ignominy : An act deserving disgrace; an infamous act.
Ignoscible : Pardonable.
Ileum : The last, and usually the longest, division of the small intestine; the part between the jejunum and large intestine.
Ilk : Same; each; every.
Illaqueable : Capable of being insnared or entrapped.
Illegalize : To make or declare illegal or unlawful.
Illiberal : Not liberal; not free or generous; close; niggardly; mean; sordid.
Illiquation : The melting or dissolving of one thing into another.
Ill-nurtured : Ill-bred.
Illuminate : To make light; to throw light on; to supply with light, literally or figuratively; to brighten.
Illumination : That which illuminates or gives light; brightness; splendor; especially, intellectual light or knowledge.
Illusion : A plain, delicate lace, usually of silk, used for veils, scarfs, dresses, etc.
Illustrative : Making illustrious.
Image : Hence: The likeness of anything to which worship is paid; an idol.
Imaginant : Imagining; conceiving.
Imagine : To represent to one's self; to think; to believe.
Imbannered : Having banners.
Imbenching : A raised work like a bench.
Imbonity : Want of goodness.
Imbracery : Embracery.
Imbureing : of Imbrue
Imitability : The quality of being imitable.
Imitatorship : The state or office of an imitator.
Immarginate : Not having a distinctive margin or border.
Immatureness : The state or quality of being immature; immaturity.
Immemorable : Not memorable; not worth remembering.
Immersable : See Immersible.
Immethodical : Not methodical; without method or systematic arrangement; without order or regularity; confused.
Immiscible : Not capable of being mixed or mingled.
Immoderation : Want of moderation.
Immorigerous : Rude; uncivil; disobedient.
Immovability : The quality or state of being immovable; fixedness; steadfastness; as, immovability of a heavy body; immovability of purpose.
Immurement : The act iif immuring, or the state of being immured; imprsonment.
Impact : Contact or impression by touch; collision; forcible contact; force communicated.
Impalement : The act of impaling, or the state of being impaled.
Impanelled : of Impanel
Imparl : To have time before pleading; to have delay for mutual adjustment.
Impartialness : Impartiality.
Impasting : of Impaste
Impavid : Fearless.
Impearl : To decorate as with pearls or with anything resembling pearls.
Impelling : of Impel
Impenetrable : Incapable of being penetrated or pierced; not admitting the passage of other bodies; not to be entered; impervious; as, an impenetrable shield.
Imperative : Expressive of command; containing positive command; authoritatively or absolutely directive; commanding; authoritative; as, imperative orders.
Imperfect : Wanting in some elementary organ that is essential to successful or normal activity.
Imperial : A gold coin of Russia worth ten rubles, or about eight dollars.
Imperious : Imperative; urgent; compelling.
Impersonate : To invest with personality; to endow with the form of a living being.
Impertransible : Incapable of being passed through.
Impetrative : Of the nature of impetration; getting, or tending to get, by entreaty.
Imping : The process of repairing broken feathers or a deficient wing.
Implacentalia : A primary division of the Mammalia, including the monotremes and marsupials, in which no placenta is formed.
Implement : To accomplish; to fulfill.
Implicitly : In an implicit manner; without reserve; with unreserved confidence.
Implosive : Formed by implosion.
Impoliticness : The quality of being impolitic.
Import : Importance; weight; consequence.
Importunacy : The quality of being importunate; importunateness.
Impose : To lay on; to set or place; to put; to deposit.
Impossibilities : of Impossibility
Impostress : Alt. of Impostrix
Impoundage : The act of impounding, or the state of being impounded.
Impractical : Not practical.
Impregnate : To become pregnant.
Impress : To press, stamp, or print something in or upon; to mark by pressure, or as by pressure; to imprint (that which bears the impression).
Impression : In painting, the first coat of color, as the priming in house painting and the like.
Impreventability : The state or quality of being impreventable.
Improbabilities : of Improbability
Improper : Not peculiar or appropriate to individuals; general; common.
-trixes : of Impropriatrix
Improve : To increase; to be enhanced; to rise in value; as, the price of cotton improves.
Improvisatize : Same as Improvisate.
Imprudent : Not prudent; wanting in prudence or discretion; indiscreet; injudicious; not attentive to consequence; improper.
Impulse : A mental force which simply and directly urges to action; hasty inclination; sudden motive; momentary or transient influence of appetite or passion; propension; incitement; as, a man of good impulses; passion often gives a violent impulse to the will.
Impure : Unchaste; lewd; unclean; obscene; as, impure language or ideas.
Imputation : Opinion; intimation; hint.
In : With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life.
Inacquaintance : Want of acquaintance.
Inadmissible : Not admissible; not proper to be admitted, allowed, or received; as, inadmissible testimony; an inadmissible proposition, or explanation.
Inamiable : Unamiable.
Inanitiate : To produce inanition in; to exhaust for want of nourishment.
Inappreciable : Not appreciable; too small to be perceived; incapable of being duly valued or estimated.
Inarticulated : Not articulated; not jointed or connected by a joint.
Inauguration : The act of inuagurating, or inducting into office with solemnity; investiture by appropriate ceremonies.
Inbreathed : of Inbreathe
Incalescence : The state of being incalescent, or of growing warm.
Incapable : As a term of disgrace, sometimes annexed to a sentence when an officer has been cashiered and rendered incapable of serving his country.
Incarceration : The act of confining, or the state of being confined; imprisonment.
Incarnative : Causing new flesh to grow; healing; regenerative.
Incend : To inflame; to excite.
Incense : Also used figuratively.
Inceptive : An inceptive word, phrase, or clause.
Inching : of Inch
Inchoate : To begin.
Incidently : Incidentally.
Incised : Cut in; carved; engraved.
Incitement : The act of inciting.
Inclemencies : of Inclemency
Incline : Fig.: To lean or tend, in an intellectual or moral sense; to favor an opinion, a course of conduct, or a person; to have a propensity or inclination; to be disposed.
Inclose : To separate from common grounds by a fence; as, to inclose lands.
Incoach : To put a coach.
Incognitant : Ignorant.
Incolumity : Safety; security.
Incommensurate : Not commensurate; not admitting of a common measure; incommensurable.
Incommunicative : Not communicative; not free or apt to impart to others in conversation; reserved; silent; as, the messenger was incommunicative; hence, not disposed to hold fellowship or intercourse with others; exclusive.
Incompetent : Not competent; wanting in adequate strength, power, capacity, means, qualifications, or the like; incapable; unable; inadequate; unfit.
Incomprehensibility : The quality of being incomprehensible, or beyond the reach of human intellect; incomprehensibleness; inconceivability; inexplicability.
Inconcocted : Imperfectly digested, matured, or ripened.
Incongruence : Want of congruence; incongruity.
Inconsiderate : Not considerate; not attentive to safety or to propriety; not regarding the rights or feelings of others; hasty; careless; thoughtless; heedless; as, the young are generally inconsiderate; inconsiderate conduct.
Inconstance : Inconstancy.
Incontinently : In an incontinent manner; without restraint, or without due restraint; -- used esp. of the passions or appetites.
Inconvincible : Not convincible; incapable of being convinced.
Incorporated : United in one body; formed into a corporation; made a legal entity.
Incorrectly : Not correctly; inaccurately; not exactly; as, a writing incorrectly copied; testimony incorrectly stated.
Incorruption : The condition or quality of being incorrupt or incorruptible; absence of, or exemption from, corruption.
Increase : To become greater or more in size, quantity, number, degree, value, intensity, power, authority, reputation, wealth; to grow; to augment; to advance; -- opposed to decrease.
Incredible : Not credible; surpassing belief; too extraordinary and improbable to admit of belief; unlikely; marvelous; fabulous.
Increscent : Increasing; growing; augmenting; swelling; enlarging.
Incrystallizable : Not crystallizable; incapable of being formed into crystals.
Inculcate : To teach and impress by frequent repetitions or admonitions; to urge on the mind; as, Christ inculcates on his followers humility.
Incumbency : That which is morally incumbent, or is imposed, as a rule, a duty, obligation, or responsibility.
Incur : To meet or fall in with, as something inconvenient, harmful, or onerous; to put one's self in the way of; to expose one's self to; to become liable or subject to; to bring down upon one's self; to encounter; to contract; as, to incur debt, danger, displeasure/ penalty, responsibility, etc.
Incurvated : of Incurvate
Ind : India.
Indecencies : of Indecency
Indecomposableness : Incapableness of decomposition; stability; permanence; durability.
Indefensibly : In an indefensible manner.
Indelible : That can not be annulled; indestructible.
Indented : of Indent
Indented : Having an uneven, irregular border; sinuous; undulating.
Independent : Affording a comfortable livelihood; as, an independent property.
Indesirable : Undesirable.
Index : The second digit, that next pollex, in the manus, or hand; the forefinger; index finger.
India : See Caoutchouc.
Indicatively : In an indicative manner; in a way to show or signify.
Indict : To charge with a crime, in due form of law, by the finding or presentment of a grand jury; to find an indictment against; as, to indict a man for arson. It is the peculiar province of a grand jury to indict, as it is of a house of representatives to impeach.
Indifferent : Feeling no interest, anxiety, or care, respecting anything; unconcerned; inattentive; apathetic; heedless; as, to be indifferent to the welfare of one's family.
Indigest : Something indigested.
Indignant : Affected with indignation; wrathful; passionate; irate; feeling wrath, as when a person is exasperated by unworthy or unjust treatment, by a mean action, or by a degrading accusation.
Indihumin : A brown amorphous substance resembling humin, and obtained from indican.
Indiscerptibility : The state or quality of being indiscerpible.
Indispensable : Unavoidable; inevitable.
Indissolubly : In an indissoluble manner.
Indite : To invite or ask.
Individualization : The act of individualizing; the state of being individualized; individuation.
Indivisibleness : The state of being indivisible; indivisibility.
Indo-Germanic : Pertaining to or denoting the Teutonic family of languages as related to the Sanskrit, or derived from the ancient Aryan language.
Indorsation : Indorsement.
Indrawn : Drawn in.
Inducement : The act of inducing, or the state of being induced.
Inductive : Leading or drawing; persuasive; tempting; -- usually followed by to.
Indulging : of Indulge
Indulto : A privilege or exemption; an indulgence; a dispensation granted by the pope.
Indusiate : Alt. of Indusiated
Indwelling : of Indwell
Inee : An arrow poison, made from an apocynaceous plant (Strophanthus hispidus) of the Gaboon country; -- called also onaye.
Inefficaciously : without efficacy or effect.
Ineloquent : Not eloquent; not fluent, graceful, or pathetic; not persuasive; as, ineloquent language.
Inequality : An irregularity, or a deviation, in the motion of a planet or satellite from its uniform mean motion; the amount of such deviation.
Inerrable : Incapable of erring; infallible; unerring.
Inescation : The act of baiting; allurement.
Inexcitable : Not susceptible of excitement; dull; lifeless; torpid.
Inexistent : Inherent; innate; indwelling.
Inexpert : Not expert; not skilled; destitute of knowledge or dexterity derived from practice.
Inexpressive : Inexpressible.
Ineyeing : of Ineye
Infamies : of Infamy
Infanticide : One who commits the crime of infanticide; one who kills an infant.
Infausting : The act of making unlucky; misfortune; bad luck.
Infectious : Corrupting, or tending to corrupt or contaminate; vitiating; demoralizing.
Inferring : of Infer
Inferiority : The state of being inferior; a lower state or condition; as, inferiority of rank, of talents, of age, of worth.
Infestivity : Want of festivity, cheerfulness, or mirth; dullness; cheerlessness.
Infiltrated : of Infiltrate
Infinitesimal : An infinitely small quantity; that which is less than any assignable quantity.
Infirm : To weaken; to enfeeble.
Inflame : To provoke to anger or rage; to exasperate; to irritate; to incense; to enrage.
Inflate : Blown in; inflated.
Inflect : To turn from a direct line or course; to bend; to incline, to deflect; to curve; to bow.
Inflexible : Not capable of being bent; stiff; rigid; firm; unyielding.
Influence : A flowing in or upon; influx.
Influxively : By influxion.
Informally : In an informal manner.
Infra : Below; beneath; under; after; -- often used as a prefix.
Inframedian : Of or pertaining to the interval or zone along the sea bottom, at the depth of between fifty and one hundred fathoms.
Infraterritorial : Within the territory of a state.
Infrugiferous : Not bearing fruit; not fructiferous.
Infuneral : To inter with funeral rites; to bury.
Infusibility : Incapability or difficulty of being fused, melted, or dissolved; as, the infusibility of carbon.
Ing : A pasture or meadow; generally one lying low, near a river.
Ingeneration : Act of ingenerating.
Ingenuousness : The state or quality of being ingenuous; openness of heart; frankness.
Ingluvial : Of or pertaining to the indulges or crop of birds.
Ingrain : An ingrain fabric, as a carpet.
Ingravidate : To impregnate.
Inguinal : Of or pertaining to, or in the region of, the inguen or groin; as, an inguinal canal or ligament; inguinal hernia.
Inhabitancy : The act of inhabiting, or the state of being inhabited; the condition of an inhabitant; residence; occupancy.
Inhaler : One who inhales.
Inherency : The state of inhering; permanent existence in something; innateness; inseparable and essential connection.
Inheritance : A perpetual or continuing right which a man and his heirs have to an estate; an estate which a man has by descent as heir to another, or which he may transmit to another as his heir; an estate derived from an ancestor to an heir in course of law.
Inhold : To have inherent; to contain in itself; to possess.
Inial : Pertaining to the inion.
Inisle : To form into an island; to surround.
Initiative : An introductory step or movement; an act which originates or begins.
Injector : A contrivance for forcing feed water into a steam boiler by the direct action of the steam upon the water. The water is driven into the boiler by the impulse of a jet of the steam which becomes condensed as soon as it strikes the stream of cold water it impels; -- also called Giffard's injector, from the inventor.
Injuria : Injury; invasion of another's rights.
Inkiness : The state or quality of being inky; blackness.
Inland : Into, or towards, the interior, away from the coast.
Inlive : To animate.
Inning : of Inn
Innervation : Special activity excited in any part of the nervous system or in any organ of sense or motion; the nervous influence necessary for the maintenance of life,and the functions of the various organs.
Innocent : Simple; artless; foolish.
Innovation : A change effected by innovating; a change in customs; something new, and contrary to established customs, manners, or rites.
Inobedience : Disobedience.
Inoculate : To communicate disease by inoculation.
Inopercular : Alt. of Inoperculate
Inosculating : of Inosculate
Inquiline : A gallfly which deposits its eggs in galls formed by other insects.
Inquisition : Judicial inquiry; official examination; inquest.
Inrailed : of Inrail
Insalutary : Not tending to safety; productive of evil.
Insatiableness : Greediness of appetite that can not be satisfied or appeased; insatiability.
Inscribe : To imprint deeply; to impress; to stamp; as, to inscribe a sentence on the memory.
Inseamed : of Inseam
Insection : A cutting in; incisure; incision.
Insensate : Wanting sensibility; destitute of sense; stupid; foolish.
Inserted : of Insert
Inset : That which is inserted or set in; an insertion.
Insidious : Lying in wait; watching an opportunity to insnare or entrap; deceitful; sly; treacherous; -- said of persons; as, the insidious foe.
Insincerity : The quality of being insincere; want of sincerity, or of being in reality what one appears to be; dissimulation; hypocritical; deceitfulness; hollowness; untrustworthiness; as, the insincerity of a professed friend; the insincerity of professions of regard.
Insinuative : Using insinuations; giving hints; insinuating; as, insinuative remark.
Insisture : A dwelling or standing on something; fixedness; persistence.
Insolation : A sunstroke.
Insolvable : Incapable of being paid or discharged, as debts.
Inspecting : of Inspect
Inspiration : The act of inspiring or breathing in; breath; specif. (Physiol.), the drawing of air into the lungs, accomplished in mammals by elevation of the chest walls and flattening of the diaphragm; -- the opposite of expiration.
Inspiring : Animating; cheering; moving; exhilarating; as, an inspiring or scene.
Installment : The act of installing; installation.
Instantaneity : Quality of being instantaneous.
Insteep : To steep or soak; to drench.
Instinct : Urged or stimulated from within; naturally moved or impelled; imbued; animated; alive; quick; as, birds instinct with life.
Institute : That which is instituted, established, or fixed, as a law, habit, or custom.
Institutive : Established; depending on, or characterized by, institution or order.
Instruction : Direction; order; command.
Instrumentation : The act of using or adapting as an instrument; a series or combination of instruments; means; agency.
Insufficience : Insufficiency.
Insulate : To place in a detached situation, or in a state having no communication with surrounding objects; to isolate; to separate.
Insult : To behave with insolence; to exult.
Insurant : The person insured.
Insusceptibility : Want of susceptibility, or of capacity to feel or perceive.
Intangibility : The quality or state of being intangible; intangibleness.
Integrate : To subject to the operation of integration; to find the integral of.
Intellectual : Belonging to, or performed by, the intellect; mental; as, intellectual powers, activities, etc.
Intelligencing : Informing; giving information; talebearing.
Intemperant : Intemperate.
Intend : To fix the mind on; to attend to; to take care of; to superintend; to regard.
Intenerated : of Intenerate
Intensify : To render more intense; as, to intensify heat or cold; to intensify colors; to intensify a photographic negative; to intensify animosity.
Intention : A stretching or bending of the mind toward of the mind toward an object; closeness of application; fixedness of attention; earnestness.
Interaction : Intermediate action.
Interaxes : of Interaxis
Interceded : of Intercede
Interception : The act of intercepting; as, interception of a letter; interception of the enemy.
Interchangeability : The state or quality of being interchangeable; interchangeableness.
Intercollegiate : Existing or carried on between colleges or universities; as, intercollegiate relations, rivalry, games, etc.
Intercommunion : Mutual communion; as, an intercommunion of deities.
Intercurrent : Not belonging to any particular season.
Interdict : An order of the court of session, having the like purpose and effect with a writ of injunction out of chancery in England and America.
Interest : Participation in advantage, profit, and responsibility; share; portion; part; as, an interest in a brewery; he has parted with his interest in the stocks.
Interfere : To cover the same ground; to claim the same invention.
Interglobular : Between globules; -- applied esp. to certain small spaces, surrounded by minute globules, in dentine.
Interjacency : The state of being between; a coming or lying between or among; intervention; also, that which lies between.
Interjunction : A mutual joining.
Interleaves : of Interleaf
Interlobar : Between lobes; as, the interlobar notch of the liver; the interlobar ducts of a gland.
Interlucent : Shining between.
Intermeddle : To intermix; to mingle.
Intermedium : Intermediate space.
Interminated : Interminable; interminate; endless; unending.
Intermix : To mix together; to intermingle.
Internal : Derived from, or dependent on, the thing itself; inherent; as, the internal evidence of the divine origin of the Scriptures.
Interneciary : Alt. of Internecinal
Internuncioship : The office or function of an internuncio.
Interpeal : To interpel.
Interplay : Mutual action or influence; interaction; as, the interplay of affection.
Interponent : One who, or that which, interposes; an interloper, an opponent.
Interpret : To act as an interpreter.
Interregnums : of Interregnum
Interrogation : A point, mark, or sign, thus [?], indicating that the sentence with which it is connected is a question. It is used to express doubt, or to mark a query. Called also interrogation point.
Interruption : Obstruction caused by breaking in upon course, current, progress, or motion; stop; hindrance; as, the author has met with many interruptions in the execution of his work; the speaker or the argument proceeds without interruption.
Intersectional : Pertaining to, or formed by, intersections.
Interspinal : Alt. of Interspinous
Intertangle : To entangle; to intertwine.
Interungular : Alt. of Interungulate
Intervene : A coming between; intervention; meeting.
Intervisit : To exchange visits.
Intestate : Not devised or bequeathed; not disposed of by will; as, an intestate estate.
Inthronization : Enthronement.
Intimidate : To make timid or fearful; to inspire of affect with fear; to deter, as by threats; to dishearten; to abash.
Intolerable : Not tolerable; not capable of being borne or endured; not proper or right to be allowed; insufferable; insupportable; unbearable; as, intolerable pain; intolerable heat or cold; an intolerable burden.
Intonate : To modulate the voice in a musical, sonorous, and measured manner, as in reading the liturgy; to intone.
Intoxicating : of Intoxicate
Intralobular : Within lobules; as, the intralobular branches of the hepatic veins.
Intrant : Entering; penetrating.
Intrench : To cut in; to furrow; to make trenches in or upon.
Intrigued : of Intrigue
Intrinsicalness : The quality of being intrinsical; intrinsicality.
Introductor : An introducer.
Intromittent : Used in copulation; -- said of the external reproductive organs of the males of many animals, and sometimes of those of the females.
Intruded : of Intrude
Intuition : A looking after; a regard to.
Intune : To intone. Cf. Entune.
Inunction : The act of anointing, or the state of being anointed; unction; specifically (Med.), the rubbing of ointments into the pores of the skin, by which medicinal agents contained in them, such as mercury, iodide of potash, etc., are absorbed.
Inusitate : Unusual.
Invagination : The condition of an invaginated organ or part.
Invaluable : Valuable beyond estimation; inestimable; priceless; precious.
Inveigh : To declaim or rail (against some person or thing); to utter censorious and bitter language; to attack with harsh criticism or reproach, either spoken or written; to use invectives; -- with against; as, to inveigh against character, conduct, manners, customs, morals, a law, an abuse.
Invention : The act of finding out or inventing; contrivance or construction of that which has not before existed; as, the invention of logarithms; the invention of the art of printing.
Inverse : Opposite in nature and effect; -- said with reference to any two operations, which, when both are performed in succession upon any quantity, reproduce that quantity; as, multiplication is the inverse operation to division. The symbol of an inverse operation is the symbol of the direct operation with -1 as an index. Thus sin-1 x means the arc whose sine is x.
Invert : To divert; to convert to a wrong use.
Invest : To put on.
Investive : Investing.
Invidious : Worthy of envy; desirable; enviable.
Inviolate : Alt. of Inviolated
Invisible : One of those (as in the 16th century) who denied the visibility of the church.
Invitrifiable : Not admitting of being vitrified, or converted into glass.
Involucrate : Alt. of Involucrated
Involute : A curve traced by the end of a string wound upon another curve, or unwound from it; -- called also evolvent. See Evolute.
Involvement : The act of involving, or the state of being involved.
Inwards : Into, or toward, the mind or thoughts; inwardly; as, to turn the attention inward.
Io : An exclamation of joy or triumph; -- often interjectional.
Iolite : A silicate of alumina, iron, and magnesia, having a bright blue color and vitreous luster; cordierite. It is remarkable for its dichroism, and is also called dichroite.
Ipecac : An abbreviation of Ipecacuanha, and in more frequent use.
Irenical : Fitted or designed to promote peace; pacific; conciliatory; peaceful.
Iridizing : of Iridize
Irish : An old game resembling backgammon.
Ironed : of Iron
Ironical : Addicted to the use of irony; given to irony.
Irony : Made or consisting of iron; partaking of iron; iron; as, irony chains; irony particles.
Irradiate : Illuminated; irradiated.
Irreconcilement : The state or quality of being unreconciled; disagreement.
Irregeneracy : Unregeneracy.
Irreligionist : One who is irreligious.
Irreparableness : Quality of being irreparable.
Irresistible : That can not be successfully resisted or opposed; superior to opposition; resistless; overpowering; as, an irresistible attraction.
Irresponsibly : So as not to be responsible.
Irreversibleness : The state or quality of being irreversible.
Irritable : Very susceptible of anger or passion; easily inflamed or exasperated; as, an irritable temper.
Irritation : The act of irritating, or exciting, or the state of being irritated; excitement; stimulation, usually of an undue and uncomfortable kind; especially, excitement of anger or passion; provocation; annoyance; anger.
Is : The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man. See Be.
Isatis : A genus of herbs, some species of which, especially the Isatis tinctoria, yield a blue dye similar to indigo; woad.
-ish : A suffix used to from adjectives from nouns and from adjectives. It denotes relation, resemblance, similarity, and sometimes has a diminutive force; as, selfish, boyish, brutish; whitish, somewhat white.
Islamizing : of Islamize
Is- : Applied to certain compounds having the same composition but different properties; as in isocyanic.
Isochronic : Isochronal.
Isodynamous : Of equal force or size.
Isolation : The act of isolating, or the state of being isolated; insulation; separation; loneliness.
Isonitroso- : A combining from (also used adjectively), signifying: Pertaining to, or designating, the characteristic, nitrogenous radical, NOH, called the isonitroso group.
Isorcin : A crystalline hydrocarbon derivative, metameric with orcin, but produced artificially; -- called also cresorcin.
Isotrimorphism : Isomorphism between the three forms, severally, of two trimorphous substances.
Issue : A discharge of flux, as of blood.
-ist : A noun suffix denoting an agent, or doer, one who practices, a believer in; as, theorist, one who theorizes; socialist, one who holds to socialism; sensualist, one given to sensuality.
Italian : The language used in Italy, or by the Italians.
Itching : of Itch
Itemize : To state in items, or by particulars; as, to itemize the cost of a railroad.
Itineraries : of Itinerary
Ivory : The tusks themselves of the elephant, etc.
J : J is the tenth letter of the English alphabet. It is a later variant form of the Roman letter I, used to express a consonantal sound, that is, originally, the sound of English y in yet. The forms J and I have, until a recent time, been classed together, and they have been used interchangeably.
Jacaranda : The native Brazilian name for certain leguminous trees, which produce the beautiful woods called king wood, tiger wood, and violet wood.
Jack : A machine for slicking or pebbling leather.
Jack-a-dandy : A little dandy; a little, foppish, impertinent fellow.
Jackmen : of Jackman
Jacobian : Of or pertaining to a style of architecture and decoration in the time of James the First, of England.
Jaconet : A thin cotton fabric, between and muslin, used for dresses, neckcloths, etc.
Jade : A young woman; -- generally so called in irony or slight contempt.
Jaganatha : Alt. of Jaganatha
Jaina : One of a numerous sect in British India, holding the tenets of Jainism.
Jam : To bring (a vessel) so close to the wind that half her upper sails are laid aback.
Jamestown : The poisonous thorn apple or stramonium (Datura stramonium), a rank weed early noticed at Jamestown, Virginia. See Datura.
Janissary : See Janizary.
Janus-headed : Double-headed.
Japhetic : Pertaining to, or derived from, Japheth, one of the sons of Noah; as, Japhetic nations, the nations of Europe and Northern Asia; Japhetic languages.
Jargle : To emit a harsh or discordant sound.
Jarvy : A hackney coach.
Jaundiced : Prejudiced; envious; as, a jaundiced judgment.
Jaw : Hence, also, the bone itself with the teeth and covering.
Jay : Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus, Cyanocitta, and allied genera. They are allied to the crows, but are smaller, more graceful in form, often handsomely colored, and usually have a crest.
Jeel : A morass; a shallow lake.
Jehu : A coachman; a driver; especially, one who drives furiously.
Jemmy : A short crowbar. See Jimmy.
Jeopardous : Perilous; hazardous.
Jerker : A beater.
Jervine : A poisonous alkaloid resembling veratrine, and found with it in white hellebore (Veratrum album); -- called also jervina.
Jesting : Sportive; not serious; fit for jests.
Jet : The sprue of a type, which is broken from it when the type is cold.
Jetton : A metal counter used in playing cards.
Jewellery : See Jewelry.
Jib : The projecting arm of a crane, from which the load is suspended.
Jig : To sort or separate, as ore in a jigger or sieve. See Jigging, n.
Jilted : of Jilt
Jingle : That which makes a jingling sound, as a rattle.
Job : A situation or opportunity of work; as, he lost his job.
Jobbing : Doing chance work or add jobs; as, a jobbing carpenter.
Jocularity : Jesting; merriment.
Jogging : The act of giving a jog or jogs; traveling at a jog.
John's-wort : See St. John's-wort.
Joint : The place or part where two things or parts are joined or united; the union of two or more smooth or even surfaces admitting of a close-fitting or junction; junction as, a joint between two pieces of timber; a joint in a pipe.
Jointer : A plane for smoothing the surfaces of pieces which are to be accurately joined
Joisted : of Joist
Jolly : Full of life and mirth; jovial; joyous; merry; mirthful.
Jonquille : A bulbous plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Jonquilla), allied to the daffodil. It has long, rushlike leaves, and yellow or white fragrant flowers. The root has emetic properties. It is sometimes called the rush-leaved daffodil. See Illust. of Corona.
Jot : To set down; to make a brief note of; -- usually followed by down.
Journalism : The keeping of a journal or diary.
Journeywork : Originally, work done by the day; work done by a journeyman at his trade.
Jowler : A dog with large jowls, as the beagle.
Juba : A loose panicle, the axis of which falls to pieces, as in certain grasses.
Judaically : After the Jewish manner.
Judge : One of supreme magistrates, with both civil and military powers, who governed Israel for more than four hundred years.
Judgment : A calamity regarded as sent by God, by way of recompense for wrong committed; a providential punishment.
Judiciousness : The quality or state of being judicious; sagacity; sound judgment.
Juggling : of Juggle
Jugular : Of or pertaining to the jugular vein; as, the jugular foramen.
Juke : To bend the neck; to bow or duck the head.
Jumble : A confused mixture; a mass or collection without order; as, a jumble of words.
Jump : An effort; an attempt; a venture.
Junco : Any bird of the genus Junco, which includes several species of North American finches; -- called also snowbird, or blue snowbird.
Junior : Hence: One of a lower or later standing; specifically, in American colleges, one in the third year of his course, one in the fourth or final year being designated a senior; in some seminaries, one in the first year, in others, one in the second year, of a three years' course.
Junos : of June
Juramentum : An oath.
Jurisprudent : Understanding law; skilled in jurisprudence.
Just : Closely; nearly; almost.
Justifiable : Capable of being justified, or shown to be just.
Justled : of Justle
Juvenescence : A growing young.
Kabala : See Cabala.
Kail : A kind of headless cabbage. Same as Kale, 1.
Kale : See Kail, 2.
Kalmuck : See Calmucks.
Kanacka : Alt. of Kanaka
Karagane : A species of gray fox found in Russia.
Katabolic : Of or pertaining to katabolism; as, katabolic processes, which give rise to substances (katastates) of decreasing complexity and increasing stability.
Kecked : of Keck
Keech : A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher.
Keelhaul : To haul under the keel of a ship, by ropes attached to the yardarms on each side. It was formerly practiced as a punishment in the Dutch and English navies.
Kept : of Keep
Keep : To reside for a time; to lodge; to dwell.
Keepsake : Anything kept, or given to be kept, for the sake of the giver; a token of friendship.
Kell : The cocoon or chrysalis of an insect.
Kembing : of Kemb
Kennel : The hole of a fox or other beast; a haunt.
Keramics : Same as Ceramics.
Kercher : A kerchief.
Kern : A churn.
Kers : Alt. of Kerse
Ketol : One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances, represented by methyl ketol and related to indol.
Key : That part of a mechanism which serves to lock up, make fast, or adjust to position.
Keyhole : a mortise for a key or cotter.
Kibble : To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats.
Kickable : Capable or deserving of being kicked.
Kid : A fagot; a bundle of heath and furze.
Kidneys : of Kidney
Killing : of Kill
Kiln-dry : To dry in a kiln; as, to kiln-dry meal or grain.
Kilted : Plaited after the manner of kilting.
Kind : Showing tenderness or goodness; disposed to do good and confer happiness; averse to hurting or paining; benevolent; benignant; gracious.
Kindliness : Natural inclination; natural course.
Kinepox : See Kinetoscope.
Kingbird : The king tody. See under King.
Kingling : Same as Kinglet, 1.
Kinkle : Same as 3d Kink.
Kipe : An osier basket used for catching fish.
Kirumbo : A bird of Madagascar (Leptosomus discolor), the only living type of a family allied to the rollers. It has a pair of loral plumes. The male is glossy green above, with metallic reflections; the female is spotted with brown and black.
Kit : A large bottle.
Kite : Fictitious commercial paper used for raising money or to sustain credit, as a check which represents no deposit in bank, or a bill of exchange not sanctioned by sale of goods; an accommodation check or bill.
Kittle : To tickle.
Klipdas : Alt. of Klipdachs
Knackish : Trickish; artful.
Knapsack : A case of canvas or leather, for carrying on the back a soldier's necessaries, or the clothing, etc., of a traveler.
KNavishness : The quality or state of being knavish; knavery; dishonesty.
Kneecap : The kneepan.
Kneepiece : A piece shaped like a knee; as, the kneepieces or ears of a boat.
Knifeboard : A board on which knives are cleaned or polished.
Knight-errantries : of Knight-errantry
Knit : To unite closely; to connect; to engage; as, hearts knit together in love.
Knob : To grow into knobs or bunches; to become knobbed.
Knocker : One who, or that which, knocks; specifically, an instrument, or kind of hammer, fastened to a door, to be used in seeking for admittance.
Knot : A fastening together of the pars or ends of one or more threads, cords, ropes, etc., by any one of various ways of tying or entangling.
Knot : To entangle or perplex; to puzzle.
Knout : A kind of whip for flogging criminals, formerly much used in Russia. The last is a tapering bundle of leather thongs twisted with wire and hardened, so that it mangles the flesh.
Knowingly : With knowledge; in a knowing manner; intelligently; consciously; deliberately; as, he would not knowingly offend.
Knuckle : A convex portion of a vessel's figure where a sudden change of shape occurs, as in a canal boat, where a nearly vertical side joins a nearly flat bottom.
Kobalt : See Cobalt.
Konze : A large African antelope (Alcelaphus Lichtensteini), allied to the hartbeest, but having shorter and flatter horns, and lacking a black patch on the face.
Kowtow : The same as Kotow.
Kriegsspiel : A game of war, played for practice, on maps.
Kudu : See Koodoo.
Kutch : See Catechu.
Kymographic : Of or pertaining to a kymograph; as, a kymographic tracing.
Kytoplasma : See Karyoplasma.
Label : A slip of silk, paper, parchment, etc., affixed to anything, usually by an inscription, the contents, ownership, destination, etc.; as, the label of a bottle or a package.
Labial : Of or pertaining to the lips or labia; as, labial veins.
Labile : Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize.
Labor : That which requires hard work for its accomplishment; that which demands effort.
Laboredly : In a labored manner; with labor.
Labrum : The external margin of the aperture of a shell. See Univalve.
Labyrinthiform : Having the form of a labyrinth; intricate.
Lace : To adorn with narrow strips or braids of some decorative material; as, cloth laced with silver.
Lacerative : Lacerating, or having the power to lacerate; as, lacerative humors.
Lachrymal : Pertaining to, or secreting, tears; as, the lachrymal gland.
Laciniated : Fringed; having a fringed border.
Lacker : One who lacks or is in want.
LaconIcism : Same as Laconism.
Lactamic : Pertaining to, or designating, an amido acid related to lactic acid, and called also amido-propionic acid.
Lactescent : Producing milk or a milklike juice or fluid, as the milkweed. See Latex.
Lactose : Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present in milk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization. It has a slightly sweet taste, is dextrorotary, and is much less soluble in water than either cane sugar or glucose. Formerly called lactin.
Lacunose : Alt. of Lacunous
Lade : To draw water.
Ladled : of Ladle
Ladyfish : A labroid fish (Harpe rufa) of Florida and the West Indies.
Ladyship : The rank or position of a lady; -- given as a title (preceded by her or your).
Laevorotatory : Same as Levorotatory. Cf. Dextrorotatory.
Lag : To transport for crime.
Lagoon : A shallow sound, channel, pond, or lake, especially one into which the sea flows; as, the lagoons of Venice.
Laism : See Lamaism.
Lammed : of Lam
Lamb : To bring forth a lamb or lambs, as sheep.
Lambrequin : A piece of ornament drapery or short decorative hanging, pendent from a shelf or from the casing above a window, hiding the curtain fixtures, or the like.
Lamellated : Composed of, or furnished with, thin plates or scales. See Illust. of Antennae.
Lament : To mourn for; to bemoan; to bewail.
Lamina : A thin plate or scale; specif., one of the thin, flat processes composing the vane of a feather.
Laminitis : Inflammation of the laminae or fleshy plates along the coffin bone of a horse; founder.
Lampic : Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of a supposed acid.
Lanary : A place for storing wool.
Lanceolar : Lanceolate.
Land : Urine. See Lant.
Landaulet : A small landau.
Landleaper : See Landlouper.
Landowning : Having property in land; of or pertaining to landowners.
Lane : Alone.
Language : A race, as distinguished by its speech.
Languish : See Languishiment.
Laniation : A tearing in pieces.
Lansquenet : A game at cards, vulgarly called lambskinnet.
Lanthanite : Hydrous carbonate of lanthanum, found in tabular while crystals.
Lap : In card playing and other games, the points won in excess of the number necessary to complete a game; -- so called when they are counted in the score of the following game.
Lapboard : A board used on the lap as a substitute for a table, as by tailors.
Lapidescent : Undergoing the process of becoming stone; having the capacity of being converted into stone; having the quality of petrifying bodies.
Lappaceous : Resembling the capitulum of burdock; covered with forked points.
Lapsing : of Lapse
Laquear : A lacunar.
Lard : To stuff with bacon; to dress or enrich with lard; esp., to insert lardons of bacon or pork in the surface of, before roasting; as, to lard poultry.
Large : Full in statement; diffuse; full; profuse.
Largiloquent : Grandiloquent.
Lark's-heel : Indian cress.
Lary : A guillemot; -- called also lavy.
Lascar : A native sailor, employed in European vessels; also, a menial employed about arsenals, camps, camps, etc.; a camp follower.
Lash : To bind with a rope, cord, thong, or chain, so as to fasten; as, to lash something to a spar; to lash a pack on a horse's back.
Last : Next before the present; as, I saw him last week.
Laster : A workman whose business it is to shape boots or shoes, or place leather smoothly, on lasts; a tool for stretching leather on a last.
Latchet : The string that fastens a shoe; a shoestring.
Lateres : of Later
Latex : A milky or colored juice in certain plants in cavities (called latex cells or latex tubes). It contains the peculiar principles of the plants, whether aromatic, bitter, or acid, and in many instances yields caoutchouc upon coagulation.
Lath-shaped : Having a slender elongated form, like a lath; -- said of the feldspar of certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as seen in microscopic sections.
Latin : An exercise in schools, consisting in turning English into Latin.
Latirostres : The broad-billed singing birds, such as the swallows, and their allies.
Latitudinarianism : A latitudinarian system or condition; freedom of opinion in matters pertaining to religious belief.
Latterly : Lately; of late; recently; at a later, as distinguished from a former, period.
Laudable : Healthy; salubrious; normal; having a disposition to promote healing; not noxious; as, laudable juices of the body; laudable pus.
Laugher : One who laughs.
Launch : To move with force and swiftness like a sliding from the stocks into the water; to plunge; to make a beginning; as, to launch into the current of a stream; to launch into an argument or discussion; to launch into lavish expenditures; -- often with out.
Laura : A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhood occupied by anchorites who were under the same superior.
Laurinol : Ordinary camphor; -- so called in allusion to the family name (Lauraceae) of the camphor trees. See Camphor.
Lave : To bathe; to wash one's self.
Lavish : To expend or bestow with profusion; to use with prodigality; to squander; as, to lavish money or praise.
Law : Legal science; jurisprudence; the principles of equity; applied justice.
Lammaking : The enacting of laws; legislation.
Laxation : The act of loosening or slackening, or the state of being loosened or slackened.
Laid : of Lay
Lay : To produce and deposit eggs.
Layman : One of the people, in distinction from the clergy; one of the laity; sometimes, a man not belonging to some particular profession, in distinction from those who do.
Laziness : The state or quality of being lazy.
Leach : See Leech, a physician.
Lead : To begin a game, round, or trick, with; as, to lead trumps; the double five was led.
Leader : A performer who leads a band or choir in music; also, in an orchestra, the principal violinist; the one who plays at the head of the first violins.
Leady : Resembling lead.
Leafy : Full of leaves; abounding in leaves; as, the leafy forest.
Leakage : A leaking; also, the quantity that enters or issues by leaking.
Lean : That part of flesh which consist principally of muscle without the fat.
Leap : To cause to leap; as, to leap a horse across a ditch.
Learn : To communicate knowledge to; to teach.
Leaser : A liar.
Leather : To beat, as with a thong of leather.
Leave : To desert; to abandon; to forsake; hence, to give up; to relinquish.
Leaviness : Leafiness.
Lecithin : A complex, nitrogenous phosphorized substance widely distributed through the animal body, and especially conspicuous in the brain and nerve tissue, in yolk of eggs, and in the white blood corpuscles.
Lectureship : The office of a lecturer.
Lee : That which settles at the bottom, as of a cask of liquor (esp. wine); sediment; dregs; -- used now only in the plural.
Leeme : See Leme.
Leese : To hurt.
Left-handiness : The state or quality of being left-handed; awkwardness.
Legal : According to the law of works, as distinguished from free grace; or resting on works for salvation.
Legateship : The office of a legate.
Legendary : One who relates legends.
Legible : Capable of being read or deciphered; distinct to the eye; plain; -- used of writing or printing; as, a fair, legible manuscript.
Legislatively : In a legislative manner.
Legitimation : The act of making legitimate.
Leguminous : Pertaining to pulse; consisting of pulse.
Leitmotif : See Leading motive, under Leading, a.
Lemurid : Same as Lemuroid.
Lene : Smooth; as, the lene breathing.
Lengthways : Alt. of Lengthwise
Lenocinant : Given to lewdness.
Lenticula : A lens of small size.
Leo : The Lion, the fifth sign of the zodiac, marked thus [/] in almanacs.
Leperize : To affect with leprosy.
Lepisma : A genus of wingless thysanurous insects having an elongated flattened body, covered with shining scales and terminated by seven unequal bristles. A common species (Lepisma saccharina) is found in houses, and often injures books and furniture. Called also shiner, silver witch, silver moth, and furniture bug.
Leptostraca : An order of Crustacea, including Nebalia and allied forms.
Lesion : Any morbid change in the exercise of functions or the texture of organs.
Lesson : A severe lecture; reproof; rebuke; warning.
Let : To cause; to make; -- used with the infinitive in the active form but in the passive sense; as, let make, i. e., cause to be made; let bring, i. e., cause to be brought.
-gies : of Lethargy
Letter : A writing; an inscription.
Lettic : Of or pertaining to the Letts; Lettish.
Leucitic : Containing leucite; as, leucitic rocks.
Leucoplast : Alt. of Leucoplastid
Levant : To run away from one's debts; to decamp.
Levee : See Levy in mass, under Levy, n.
Level : To make level; to make horizontal; to bring to the condition of a level line or surface; hence, to make flat or even; as, to level a road, a walk, or a garden.
Leverage : The action of a lever; mechanical advantage gained by the lever.
Levigate : Made smooth, as if polished.
Levity : The quality of weighing less than something else of equal bulk; relative lightness, especially as shown by rising through, or floating upon, a contiguous substance; buoyancy; -- opposed to gravity.
Levy : To raise; to collect; said of troops, to form into an army by enrollment, conscription, etc.
Lexicographer : The author or compiler of a lexicon or dictionary.
Leyden : A glass jar or bottle used to accumulate electricity. It is coated with tin foil, within and without, nearly to its top, and is surmounted by a brass knob which communicates with the inner coating, for the purpose of charging it with electricity. It is so named from having been invented in Leyden, Holland.
Lias : The lowest of the three divisions of the Jurassic period; a name given in England and Europe to a series of marine limestones underlying the Oolite. See the Chart of Geology.
Libel : To proceed against by filing a libel, particularly against a ship or goods.
Liberalist : A liberal.
Liberticide : The destruction of civil liberty.
Liberty : The power of choice; freedom from necessity; freedom from compulsion or constraint in willing.
Librating : of Librate
Licensed : of License
Licheniform : Having the form of a lichen.
Lick : A place where salt is found on the surface of the earth, to which wild animals resort to lick it up; -- often, but not always, near salt springs.
Lid : The cover of the spore cases of mosses.
Lie : To be or exist; to belong or pertain; to have an abiding place; to consist; -- with in.
Liege : Full; perfect; complete; pure.
Lieutenancy : The body of lieutenants or subordinates.
Life : The system of animal nature; animals in general, or considered collectively.
Lifesome : Animated; sprightly.
Lift : That by means of which a person or thing lifts or is lifted
Ligan : Goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that they may be found again. See Jetsam and Flotsam.
Light : That agent, force, or action in nature by the operation of which upon the organs of sight, objects are rendered visible or luminous.
Light : To give light to; to illuminate; to fill with light; to spread over with light; -- often with up.
Light : Wanton; unchaste; as, a woman of light character.
Lighten : To burst forth or dart, as lightning; to shine with, or like, lightning; to display a flash or flashes of lightning; to flash.
Light-handed : Not having a full complement of men; as, a vessel light-handed.
Lightly : Without dejection; cheerfully.
Lightwood : Pine wood abounding in pitch, used for torches in the Southern United States; pine knots, dry sticks, and the like, for kindling a fire quickly or making a blaze.
Lignose : Alt. of Lignous
Ligure : A kind of precious stone.
Likeable : See Likable.
Likeness : That which closely resembles; a portrait.
Lilliputian : Of very small size; diminutive; dwarfed.
Liman : The deposit of slime at the mouth of a river; slime.
Limber : The shafts or thills of a wagon or carriage.
Lime : Oxide of calcium; the white or gray, caustic substance, usually called quicklime, obtained by calcining limestone or shells, the heat driving off carbon dioxide and leaving lime. It develops great heat when treated with water, forming slacked lime, and is an essential ingredient of cement, plastering, mortar, etc.
Limit : The space or thing defined by limits.
Limitation : That which limits; a restriction; a qualification; a restraining condition, defining circumstance, or qualifying conception; as, limitations of thought.
Limning : of Limn
Limp : Flaccid; flabby, as flesh.
Limuli : of Limulus
Linden : A handsome tree (Tilia Europaea), having cymes of light yellow flowers, and large cordate leaves. The tree is common in Europe.
Line : That which has length, but not breadth or thickness.
Line : One of the straight horizontal and parallel prolonged strokes on and between which the notes are placed.
Linearensate : Having the form of a sword, but very long and narrow.
Liner : A vessel belonging to a regular line of packets; also, a line-of-battle ship; a ship of the line.
Linger : To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow or reluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be in suspense; to hesitate.
Lingual : Of or pertaining to the tongue; uttered by the aid of the tongue; glossal; as, the lingual nerves; a lingual letter.
Lining : That which covers the inner surface of anything, as of a garment or a box; also, the contents of anything.
Linkwork : A fabric consisting of links made of metal or other material fastened together; also, a chain.
Lint : Flax.
Lionizing : of Lionize
Lipping : of Lip
Lipothymy : A fainting; a swoon.
Liquefy : To convert from a solid form to that of a liquid; to melt; to dissolve; and technically, to melt by the sole agency of heat.
Liquidate : To discharge; to pay off, as an indebtedness.
Liquorish : See Lickerish.
Lisp : To speak hesitatingly with a low voice, as if afraid.
List : An inclination to one side; as, the ship has a list to starboard.
Listened : of Listen
Litchi : The fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi). It is nutlike, having a rough but tender shell, containing an aromatic pulp, and a single large seed. In the dried fruit which is exported the pulp somewhat resembles a raisin in color and form.
Literally : With close adherence to words; word by word.
-lite : Combining forms fr. Gr. li`qos a stone; -- used chiefly in naming minerals and rocks.
Lithic : Pertaining to the formation of uric-acid concretions (stone) in the bladder and other parts of the body; as, lithic diathesis.
Lithoglypher : One who curs or engraves precious stones.
Lithology : A treatise on stones found in the body.
Lithosian : Any one of various species of moths belonging to the family Lithosidae. Many of them are beautifully colored.
Lithotype : To prepare for printing with plates made by the process of lithotypy. See Lithotypy.
Litigiousness : The state of being litigious; disposition to engage in or carry on lawsuits.
Little : Short in duration; brief; as, a little sleep.
Liturgical : Pertaining to, of or the nature of, a liturgy; of or pertaining to public prayer and worship.
Live : To enjoy or make the most of life; to be in a state of happiness.
Liveliness : An appearance of life, animation, or spirit; as, the liveliness of the eye or the countenance in a portrait.
Liveried : Wearing a livery. See Livery, 3.
Liveryman : One who wears a livery, as a servant.
Livingness : The state or quality of being alive; possession of energy or vigor; animation; quickening.
Lizard : Any one of the numerous species of reptiles belonging to the order Lacertilia; sometimes, also applied to reptiles of other orders, as the Hatteria.
Loaded : of Load
Loaf : To spend time in idleness; to lounge or loiter about.
Loath : Filled with disgust or aversion; averse; unwilling; reluctant; as, loath to part.
Lob : Something thick and heavy.
Lobby : To address or solicit members of a legislative body in the lobby or elsewhere, with the purpose to influence their votes.
Lobscouse : A combination of meat with vegetables, bread, etc., usually stewed, sometimes baked; an olio.
Locality : Limitation to a county, district, or place; as, locality of trial.
Locator : One who locates, or is entitled to locate, land or a mining claim.
Locked : of Lock
Lock : A hospital for the treatment of venereal diseases.
Locomotive : A locomotive engine; a self-propelling wheel carriage, especially one which bears a steam boiler and one or more steam engines which communicate motion to the wheels and thus propel the carriage, -- used to convey goods or passengers, or to draw wagons, railroad cars, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.
Locust : The locust tree. See Locust Tree (definition, note, and phrases).
Lodge : The chamber of an abbot, prior, or head of a college.
Lodging : A place of rest, or of temporary habitation; esp., a sleeping apartment; -- often in the plural with a singular meaning.
Log : A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing 2.37 gills.
Log-chip : A thin, flat piece of board in the form of a quadrant of a circle attached to the log line; -- called also log-ship. See 2d Log, n., 2.
Logical : Of or pertaining to logic; used in logic; as, logical subtilties.
Logographical : Of or pertaining to logography.
Lohock : See Loch, a medicine.
Loll : To hand extended from the mouth, as the tongue of an ox or a log when heated with labor or exertion.
Lombard : A form of cannon formerly in use.
Lone : Unfrequented by human beings; solitary.
Long : A long sound, syllable, or vowel.
Longe : A thrust. See Lunge.
Longinquity : Greatness of distance; remoteness.
Longly : With longing desire.
Long-suffering : Bearing injuries or provocation for a long time; patient; not easily provoked.
Loobies : of Looby
Look : To express or manifest by a look.
Loom : To appear above the surface either of sea or land, or to appear enlarged, or distorted and indistinct, as a distant object, a ship at sea, or a mountain, esp. from atmospheric influences; as, the ship looms large; the land looms high.
Looper : The larva of any species of geometrid moths. See Geometrid.
Loose : Freedom from restraint.
Loosish : Somewhat loose.
Lope : To leap; to dance.
Lopper : One who lops or cuts off.
Lord : One who has power and authority; a master; a ruler; a governor; a prince; a proprietor, as of a manor.
Lordly : Proud; haughty; imperious; insolent.
Lorette : In France, a name for a woman who is supported by her lovers, and devotes herself to idleness, show, and pleasure; -- so called from the church of Notre Dame de Lorette, in Paris, near which many of them resided.
Loring : Instructive discourse.
Lose : To fail to obtain or enjoy; to fail to gain or win; hence, to fail to catch with the mind or senses; to miss; as, I lost a part of what he said.
Lossful : Detrimental.
Lote : A large tree (Celtis australis), found in the south of Europe. It has a hard wood, and bears a cherrylike fruit. Called also nettle tree.
Lotus : The lote, or nettle tree. See Lote.
Louk : "An accomplice; a ""pal."""
Lousily : In a lousy manner; in a mean, paltry manner; scurvily.
Love : A thin silk stuff.
Lovely : Lovable; amiable; having qualities of any kind which excite, or are fitted to excite, love or friendship.
Lovingness : Affection; kind regard.
Low : Wanting strength or animation; depressed; dejected; as, low spirits; low in spirits.
Lowbell : A bell to be hung on the neck of a sheep.
Lowering : of Lower
Lowliness : The state or quality of being lowly; humility; humbleness of mind.
Loxodromics : The art or method of sailing on the loxodromic or rhumb line.
Lubbard : Lubberly.
Lubrifaction : The act of lubricating, or making smooth.
Lucid : Bright with the radiance of intellect; not darkened or confused by delirium or madness; marked by the regular operations of reason; as, a lucid interval.
Luckiness : Good fortune; favorable issue or event.
Lucubratory : Composed by candlelight, or by night; of or pertaining to night studies; laborious or painstaking.
Luff : The roundest part of a ship's bow.
Lugger : A small vessel having two or three masts, and a running bowsprit, and carrying lugsails. See Illustration in Appendix.
Lum : A woody valley; also, a deep pool.
Lumberman : One who is engaged in lumbering as a business or employment.
Lummox : A fat, ungainly, stupid person; an awkward bungler.
Lunacy : Insanity or madness; properly, the kind of insanity which is broken by intervals of reason, -- formerly supposed to be influenced by the changes of the moon; any form of unsoundness of mind, except idiocy; mental derangement or alienation.
Lunching : of Lunch
Lunge : To cause to go round in a ring, as a horse, while holding his halter.
Lunula : Same as Lunule.
Lupuline : An alkaloid extracted from hops as a colorless volatile liquid.
Lurdan : Stupid; blockish.
Luscious : Sweet; delicious; very grateful to the taste; toothsome; excessively sweet or rich.
Lusted : of Lust
Lusterless : Alt. of Lustreless
Lustrical : Pertaining to, or used for, purification.
Lute : To close or seal with lute; as, to lute on the cover of a crucible; to lute a joint.
Lutheranism : Alt. of Lutherism
Luxuriancy : The state or quality of being luxuriant; luxuriance.
Lycanthrope : A human being fabled to have been changed into a wolf; a werewolf.
Lycine : A weak base identical with betaine; -- so called because found in the boxthorn (Lycium barbarum). See Betaine.
Lying-in : The state attending, and consequent to, childbirth; confinement.
Lymphatic : A mad enthusiast; a lunatic.
Lyonnaise : Applied to boiled potatoes cut into small pieces and heated in oil or butter. They are usually flavored with onion and parsley.
Lyrid : One of the group of shooting stars which come into the air in certain years on or about the 19th of April; -- so called because the apparent path among the stars the stars if produced back wards crosses the constellation Lyra.
Ma : In Oriental countries, a respectful form of address given to a woman; mother.
Macadamizing : of Macadamize
Macaroon : A finical fellow, or macaroni.
Macedonian : A native or inhabitant of Macedonia.
Machicolation : The act of discharging missiles or pouring burning or melted substances upon assailants through such apertures.
Machinery : Machines, in general, or collectively.
Macle : A crystal having a similar tessellated appearance.
Macrodactyl : One of a group of wading birds (Macrodactyli) having very long toes.
Macroprism : A prism of an orthorhombic crystal between the macropinacoid and the unit prism; the corresponding pyramids are called macropyramids.
Mactation : The act of killing a victim for sacrifice.
Mad : Furious with rage, terror, or disease; -- said of the lower animals; as, a mad bull; esp., having hydrophobia; rabid; as, a mad dog.
Maddened : of Madden
Madeira : A rich wine made on the Island of Madeira.
Madoqua : A small Abyssinian antelope (Neotragus Saltiana), about the size of a hare.
Madrina : An animal (usually an old mare), wearing a bell and acting as the leader of a troop of pack mules.
Magazine : To store in, or as in, a magazine; to store up for use.
Maggoty : Full of whims; capricious.
Magistery : A magisterial injunction.
Magma : A salve or confection of thick consistency.
Magnet : The loadstone; a species of iron ore (the ferrosoferric or magnetic ore, Fe3O4) which has the property of attracting iron and some of its ores, and, when freely suspended, of pointing to the poles; -- called also natural magnet.
Magnetite : An oxide of iron (Fe3O4) occurring in isometric crystals, also massive, of a black color and metallic luster. It is readily attracted by a magnet and sometimes possesses polarity, being then called loadstone. It is an important iron ore. Called also magnetic iron.
Magnifiable : Such as can be magnified, or extolled.
Magnify : To have the power of causing objects to appear larger than they really are; to increase the apparent dimensions of objects; as, some lenses magnify but little.
Magyar : The language of the Magyars.
Mahometanize : To convert to the religion of Mohammed; to Mohammedanize.
Maian : Any spider crab of the genus Maia, or family Maiadae.
Maidenlike : Like a maiden; modest; coy.
Mail : A spot.
Mailing : A farm.
Main : Very or extremely strong.
Mainprising : of Mainprise
Maintenance : That which maintains or supports; means of sustenance; supply of necessaries and conveniences.
Majesty : Hence, used with the possessive pronoun, the title of an emperor, king or queen; -- in this sense taking a plural; as, their majesties attended the concert.
Majorities : of Majority
Make : To execute with the requisite formalities; as, to make a bill, note, will, deed, etc.
Make-believe : Feigned; insincere.
Making-up : The act of becoming reconciled or friendly.
Malacostraca : A subclass of Crustacea, including Arthrostraca and Thoracostraca, or all those higher than the Entomostraca.
Malamethane : A white crystalline substance forming the ethyl salt of malamic acid.
Malax : Alt. of Malaxate
Male : Suitable to the male sex; characteristic or suggestive of a male; masculine; as, male courage.
Malefice : An evil deed; artifice; enchantment.
Malevolous : Malevolent.
Malign : To treat with malice; to show hatred toward; to abuse; to wrong; to injure.
Malignity : Extreme evilness of nature or influence; perniciousness; heinousness; as, the malignity of fraud.
Mall : A court of justice.
Malleoli : of Malleolus
Malodor : An Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling.
Malthusian : Of or pertaining to the political economist, the Rev. T. R. Malthus, or conforming to his views; as, Malthusian theories.
Malversation : Evil conduct; fraudulent practices; misbehavior, corruption, or extortion in office.
Mammary : Of or pertaining to the mammae or breasts; as, the mammary arteries and veins.
Mammology : Mastology. See Mammalogy.
Man : One possessing in a high degree the distinctive qualities of manhood; one having manly excellence of any kind.
Managed : of Manage
Managery : Management; manner of using; conduct; direction.
Mandamus : A writ issued by a superior court and directed to some inferior tribunal, or to some corporation or person exercising authority, commanding the performance of some specified duty.
Mandible : The bone, or principal bone, of the lower jaw; the inferior maxilla; -- also applied to either the upper or the lower jaw in the beak of birds.
Mandragorite : One who habitually intoxicates himself with a narcotic obtained from mandrake.
Manequin : An artist's model of wood or other material.
Mangan : See Mangonel.
Mangily : In a mangy manner; scabbily.
Mangostan : A tree of the East Indies of the genus Garcinia (G. Mangostana). The tree grows to the height of eighteen feet, and bears fruit also called mangosteen, of the size of a small apple, the pulp of which is very delicious food.
Manichaean : Alt. of Manichean
Manifestation : The act of manifesting or disclosing, or the state of being manifested; discovery to the eye or to the understanding; also, that which manifests; exhibition; display; revelation; as, the manifestation of God's power in creation.
Manihoc : Alt. of Manihot
Manipulate : To control the action of, by management; as, to manipulate a convention of delegates; to manipulate the stock market; also, to manage artfully or fraudulently; as, to manipulate accounts, or election returns.
Manless : Unmanly; inhuman.
Mannered : Affected with mannerism; marked by excess of some characteristic peculiarity.
Manofwar : A government vessel employed for the purposes of war, esp. one of large size; a ship of war.
Mansion : A twelfth part of the heavens; a house. See 1st House, 8.
Mantelet : A short cloak formerly worn by knights.
Mantled : of Mantle
Manu : One of a series of progenitors of human beings, and authors of human wisdom.
Manufactory : Manufacture.
Manumotive : Movable by hand.
Manuscriptal : Manuscript.
Map : Anything which represents graphically a succession of events, states, or acts; as, an historical map.
Marabout : A Mohammedan saint; especially, one who claims to work cures supernaturally.
Marble : To stain or vein like marble; to variegate in color; as, to marble the edges of a book, or the surface of paper.
Marcasite : A sulphide of iron resembling pyrite or common iron pyrites in composition, but differing in form; white iron pyrites.
Macher : One who marches.
Mare : Sighing, suffocative panting, intercepted utterance, with a sense of pressure across the chest, occurring during sleep; the incubus; -- obsolete, except in the compound nightmare.
Margay : An American wild cat (Felis tigrina), ranging from Mexico to Brazil. It is spotted with black. Called also long-tailed cat.
Margined : Having a margin.
Marinate : To salt or pickle, as fish, and then preserve in oil or vinegar; to prepare by the use of marinade.
Marital : Of or pertaining to a husband; as, marital rights, duties, authority.
Mark : Preeminence; high position; as, particians of mark; a fellow of no mark.
Marker : An attachment to a sewing machine for marking a line on the fabric by creasing it.
Marking : The act of one who, or that which, marks; the mark or marks made; arrangement or disposition of marks or coloring; as, the marking of a bird's plumage.
Marlstone : A sandy calcareous straum, containing, or impregnated with, iron, and lying between the upper and lower Lias of England.
Marone : See Maroon, the color.
Marram : A coarse grass found on sandy beaches (Ammophila arundinacea). See Beach grass, under Beach.
Marrow : The essence; the best part.
Mars : The god of war and husbandry.
Marshaling : of Marshal
Marsupial : One of the Marsupialia.
Martello : A building of masonry, generally circular, usually erected on the seacoast, with a gun on the summit mounted on a traversing platform, so as to be fired in any direction.
Martinet : In military language, a strict disciplinarian; in general, one who lays stress on a rigid adherence to the details of discipline, or to forms and fixed methods.
Martyrdom : Affliction; torment; torture.
Marvelous : Exciting wonder or surprise; astonishing; wonderful.
Masculine : Having the inflections of, or construed with, words pertaining especially to male beings, as distinguished from feminine and neuter. See Gender.
Mask : A grotesque head or face, used to adorn keystones and other prominent parts, to spout water in fountains, and the like; -- called also mascaron.
Maslach : An excitant containing opium, much used by the Turks.
Masque : A mask; a masquerade.
Mass : The principal part; the main body.
Massiness : The state or quality of being massy; ponderousness.
Master : One who uses, or controls at will, anything inanimate; as, to be master of one's time.
Masterly : Imperious; domineering; arbitrary.
Masthead : The top or head of a mast; the part of a mast above the hounds.
Masticot : Massicot.
Mastology : The natural history of Mammalia.
Matador : In the game of quadrille or omber, the three principal trumps, the ace of spades being the first, the ace of clubs the third, and the second being the deuce of a black trump or the seven of a red one.
Match : To make equal, proportionate, or suitable; to adapt, fit, or suit (one thing to another).
Mate : To confuse; to confound.
Material : The substance or matter of which anything is made or may be made.
Materially : In its essence; substantially.
Mather : See Madder.
Matricide : The murder of a mother by her son or daughter.
Matrix : The five simple colors, black, white, blue, red, and yellow, of which all the rest are composed.
Mattamore : A subterranean repository for wheat.
Matter : To regard as important; to take account of; to care for.
Maturate : To ripen; to become mature; specif/cally, to suppurate.
Maturity : The state or quality of being mature; ripeness; full development; as, the maturity of corn or of grass; maturity of judgment; the maturity of a plan.
Maukin : See Malkin.
Maunderer : One who maunders.
Maw : An old game at cards.
Maxilla : One of the lower or outer jaws of arthropods.
May : An auxiliary verb qualifyng the meaning of another verb, by expressing: (a) Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can.
Maying : The celebrating of May Day.
Maze : A wild fancy; a confused notion.
Meach : To skulk; to cower. See Mich.
Meagreness : The state or quality of being meager; leanness; scantiness; barrenness.
Mean : To signify; to indicate; to import; to denote.
Meander : To wind, turn, or twist; to make flexuous.
Meanwhile : In the intervening time; during the interval.
Measure : Extent or degree not excessive or beyong bounds; moderation; due restraint; esp. in the phrases, in measure; with measure; without or beyond measure.
Measure : To make a measurement or measurements.
Meatoscope : A speculum for examining a natural passage, as the urethra.
Mechanical : Of or pertaining to a machine or to machinery or tools; made or formed by a machine or with tools; as, mechanical precision; mechanical products.
Mechanographic : Treating of mechanics.
Medaling : of Medal
Meddlingly : In a meddling manner.
Mediastine : Alt. of Mediastinum
Mediator : One who mediates; especially, one who interposes between parties at variance for the purpose of reconciling them; hence, an intercessor.
Medicative : Medicinal; acting like a medicine.
Medina : A subdivision of the Niagara period in the American upper Silurian, characterized by the formations known as the Oneida conglomerate, and the Medina sandstone. See the Chart of Geology.
Meditatist : One who is given to meditation.
Medle : To mix; to mingle; to meddle.
Medullin : A variety of lignin or cellulose found in the medulla, or pith, of certain plants. Cf. Lignin, and Cellulose.
Meekly : In a meek manner.
Meet : Suitable; fit; proper; appropriate; qualified; convenient.
Megacosm : See Macrocosm.
Megameter : An instrument for determining longitude by observation of the stars.
Megatheroid : One of a family of extinct edentates found in America. The family includes the megatherium, the megalonyx, etc.
Meistersinger : See Mastersinger.
Melancholily : In a melancholy manner.
Melanin : A black pigment found in the pigment-bearing cells of the skin (particularly in the skin of the negro), in the epithelial cells of the external layer of the retina (then called fuscin), in the outer layer of the choroid, and elsewhere. It is supposed to be derived from the decomposition of hemoglobin.
Melasses : See Molasses.
Melicratory : A meadlike drink.
Melissic : Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax; specif., denoting an acid obtained by oxidation of myricin.
Melliphagan : See Meliphagan.
Melluco : A climbing plant (Ullucus officinalis) of the Andes, having tuberous roots which are used as a substitute for potatoes.
Melodies : of Melody
Melting : of Melt
Member : One of the persons composing a society, community, or the like; an individual forming part of an association; as, a member of the society of Friends.
Memoirs : A memorial account; a history composed from personal experience and memory; an account of transactions or events (usually written in familiar style) as they are remembered by the writer. See History, 2.
Memorial : A species of informal state paper, much used in negotiation.
Men : pl. of Man.
Mended : of Mend
Mendinant : A mendicant or begging friar.
Meningitis : Inflammation of the membranes of the brain or spinal cord.
Menology : A brief calendar of the lives of the saints for each day in the year, or a simple remembrance of those whose lives are not written.
Menstruated : of Menstruate
Mental : Of or pertaining to the chin; genian; as, the mental nerve; the mental region.
Menu : The details of a banquet; a bill of fare.
Merce : To subject to fine or amercement; to mulct; to amerce.
Merchandiser : A trader.
Mercurial : Having the qualities fabled to belong to the god Mercury; swift; active; sprightly; fickle; volatile; changeable; as, a mercurial youth; a mercurial temperament.
Mercurify : To obtain mercury from, as mercuric minerals, which may be done by any application of intense heat that expels the mercury in fumes, which are afterward condensed.
Mere : To divide, limit, or bound.
Meride : A permanent colony of cells or plastids which may remain isolated, like Rotifer, or may multiply by gemmation to form higher aggregates, termed zoides.
Meristem : A tissue of growing cells, or cells capable of further division.
Merkin : Originally, a wig; afterwards, a mop for cleaning cannon.
Merostomata : A class of Arthropoda, allied to the Crustacea. It includes the trilobites, Eurypteroidea, and Limuloidea. All are extinct except the horseshoe crabs of the last group. See Limulus.
Merrymeeting : A meeting for mirth.
Meseemed : of Meseems
Mesh : To engage with each other, as the teeth of wheels.
Mesmerizer : One who mesmerizes.
Mesocoelia : The cavity of the mesencephalon; the iter.
Mesohippus : An extinct mammal of the Horse family, but not larger than a sheep, and having three toes on each foot.
Mesopodium : The middle portion of the foot in the Gastropoda and Pteropoda.
Mesothorax : The middle segment of the thorax in insects. See Illust. of Coleoptera.
Messing : of Mess
Messinese : Of or pertaining to Messina, or its inhabitans.
Metabases : of Metabasis
Metacetone : A colorless liquid of an agreeable odor, C6H10O, obtained by distilling a mixture of sugar and lime; -- so called because formerly regarded as a polymeric modification of acetone.
Metal : An elementary substance, as sodium, calcium, or copper, whose oxide or hydroxide has basic rather than acid properties, as contrasted with the nonmetals, or metalloids. No sharp line can be drawn between the metals and nonmetals, and certain elements partake of both acid and basic qualities, as chromium, manganese, bismuth, etc.
Metaleptic : Of or pertaining to a metalepsis.
Metallochromy : The art or process of coloring metals.
Metalogical : Beyond the scope or province of logic.
Metamorphosic : Changing the form; transforming.
Metaphosphoric : Pertaining to, or designating, a monobasic acid, HPO3, analogous to nitric acid, and, by heating phosphoric acid, obtained as a crystalline substance, commonly called glacial phosphoric acid.
Metapode : The posterior division of the foot in the Gastropoda and Pteropoda.
Metasternal : Of or pertaining to the metasternum.
Metatungstic : Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid known only in its salts (the metatungstates) and properly called polytungstic, or pyrotungstic, acid.
Mete : Measure; limit; boundary; -- used chiefly in the plural, and in the phrase metes and bounds.
Meteorism : Flatulent distention of the abdomen; tympanites.
Meter : An instrument for measuring, and usually for recording automatically, the quantity measured.
Methionate : A salt of methionic acid.
Methodizing : of Methodize
Metis : Alt. of Metisse
Metric : Of or pertaining to the meter as a standard of measurement; of or pertaining to the decimal system of measurement of which a meter is the unit; as, the metric system; a metric measurement.
Metropole : A metropolis.
Mettlesome : Full of spirit; possessing constitutional ardor; fiery; as, a mettlesome horse.
Mexican : Of or pertaining to Mexico or its people.
Mezzotint : To engrave in mezzotint.
Miauled : of Miaul
Micraster : A genus of sea urchins, similar to Spatangus, abounding in the chalk formation; -- from the starlike disposal of the ambulacral furrows.
Micrococci : of Micrococcus
Microhm : The millionth part of an ohm.
Micronometer : An instrument for noting minute portions of time.
Microscopic : Alt. of Microscopical
Microzoa : The Infusoria.
Midding : Same as Midden.
Midfeather : A vertical water space in a fire box or combustion chamber.
Midrib : A continuation of the petiole, extending from the base to the apex of the lamina of a leaf.
Midway : Being in the middle of the way or distance; as, the midway air.
Mightiness : Highness; excellency; -- with a possessive pronoun, a title of dignity; as, their high mightinesses.
Migration : The act of migrating.
Mileage : An allowance for traveling expenses at a certain rate per mile.
Militancy : A military spirit or system; militarism.
Milk : An emulsion made by bruising seeds; as, the milk of almonds, produced by pounding almonds with sugar and water.
Milkweed : Any plant of the genera Asclepias and Acerates, abounding in a milky juice, and having its seed attached to a long silky down; silkweed. The name is also applied to several other plants with a milky juice, as to several kinds of spurge.
Mill : To shape, finish, or transform by passing through a machine; specifically, to shape or dress, as metal, by means of a rotary cutter.
Millenniarism : Belief in, or expectation of, the millennium; millenarianism.
Milliaries : of Milliary
Millionairess : A woman who is a millionaire, or the wife of a millionaire.
Milt : The spleen.
Mimetism : Same as Mimicry.
Minas : of Mina
Mince-meat : Minced meat; meat chopped very fine; a mixture of boiled meat, suet, apples, etc., chopped very fine, to which spices and raisins are added; -- used in making mince pie.
Minder : One to be attended; specif., a pauper child intrusted to the care of a private person.
Miner : Any of numerous insects which, in the larval state, excavate galleries in the parenchyma of leaves. They are mostly minute moths and dipterous flies.
Mineralogist : A carrier shell (Phorus).
Mingledly : Confusedly.
Minibus : A kind of light passenger vehicle, carrying four persons.
Minimized : of Minimize
Minionlike : Alt. of Minionly
Ministerially : In a ministerial manner; in the character or capacity of a minister.
Minnow : A small European fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Phoxinus laevis, formerly Leuciscus phoxinus); sometimes applied also to the young of larger kinds; -- called also minim and minny. The name is also applied to several allied American species, of the genera Phoxinus, Notropis, or Minnilus, and Rhinichthys.
Minster : A church of a monastery. The name is often retained and applied to the church after the monastery has ceased to exist (as Beverly Minster, Southwell Minster, etc.), and is also improperly used for any large church.
Minuet : A tune or air to regulate the movements of the dance so called; a movement in suites, sonatas, symphonies, etc., having the dance form, and commonly in 3-4, sometimes 3-8, measure.
Minute-jack : A figure which strikes the hour on the bell of some fanciful clocks; -- called also jack of the clock house.
Mira : A remarkable variable star in the constellation Cetus (/ Ceti).
Mired : of Mire
Mirth : That which causes merriment.
Misaffected : Ill disposed.
Misappreciated : Improperly appreciated.
Misboden : of Misbede
Miscalculate : To calculate erroneously; to judge wrongly.
Miscellanies : of Miscellany
Mischna : See Mishna.
Miscompute : To compute erroneously.
Misconstrued : of Misconstrue
Miscreate : To create badly or amiss.
Misdepart : To distribute wrongly.
Misdo : To do wrong to; to illtreat.
Misentreat : To treat wrongfully.
Misericordia : An amercement.
Misfare : To fare ill.
Misgave : of Misgive
Misguidance : Wrong guidance.
Misinform : To give untrue information to; to inform wrongly.
Miskin : A little bagpipe.
Milen : See Maslin.
Mismate : To mate wrongly or unsuitably; as, to mismate gloves or shoes; a mismated couple.
Misorder : Irregularity; disorder.
Mispoint : To point improperly; to punctuate wrongly.
Misproud : Viciously proud.
Misrelate : To relate inaccurately.
Miss : A young unmarried woman or a girl; as, she is a miss of sixteen.
Missay : To say wrongly.
Missingly : With a sense of loss.
Missound : To sound wrongly; to utter or pronounce incorrectly.
Missuccess : Failure.
Mistake : To substitute in thought or perception; as, to mistake one person for another.
Mister : A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a man or youth. It is usually written in the abbreviated form Mr.
Mistily : With mist; darkly; obscurely.
Mistress : A woman regarded with love and devotion; she who has command over one's heart; a beloved object; a sweetheart.
Mistura : Sometimes, a liquid medicine containing very active substances, and which can only be administered by drops.
Misvalue : To value wrongly or too little; to undervalue.
Mite : A small weight; one twentieth of a grain.
Mitigable : Admitting of mitigation; that may be mitigated.
Mitten : A covering for the hand, worn to defend it from cold or injury. It differs from a glove in not having a separate sheath for each finger.
Mixedly : In a mixed or mingled manner.
Mizzled : of Mizzle
Moan : To make a low prolonged sound of grief or pain, whether articulate or not; to groan softly and continuously.
Mobile : Characterized by an extreme degree of fluidity; moving or flowing with great freedom; as, benzine and mercury are mobile liquids; -- opposed to viscous, viscoidal, or oily.
Mocha : A variety of coffee brought from Mocha.
Mocker : One who, or that which, mocks; a scorner; a scoffer; a derider.
Mode : Prevailing popular custom; fashion, especially in the phrase the mode.
Modeler : One who models; hence, a worker in plastic art.
Moderated : of Moderate
Moderatrix : A female moderator.
Modicity : Moderateness; smallness; meanness.
Modiste : A female maker of, or dealer in, articles of fashion, especially of the fashionable dress of ladies; a woman who gives direction to the style or mode of dress.
Modus : The arrangement of, or mode of expressing, the terms of a contract or conveyance.
Mohammedan : A follower of Mohammed, the founder of Islamism; one who professes Mohammedanism or Islamism.
Moiety : An indefinite part; a small part.
Moistful : Full of moisture.
Mold : A spot; a blemish; a mole.
Mould : A group of moldings; as, the arch mold of a porch or doorway; the pier mold of a Gothic pier, meaning the whole profile, section, or combination of parts.
Moulder : To crumble into small particles; to turn to dust by natural decay; to lose form, or waste away, by a gradual separation of the component particles, without the presence of water; to crumble away.
Mole : A mound or massive work formed of masonry or large stones, etc., laid in the sea, often extended either in a right line or an arc of a circle before a port which it serves to defend from the violence of the waves, thus protecting ships in a harbor; also, sometimes, the harbor itself.
Moleskin : Any fabric having a thick soft shag, like the fur of a mole; esp., a kind of strong twilled fustian.
Mollient : Serving to soften; assuaging; emollient.
Molluscoidea : A division of Invertebrata which includes the classes Brachiopoda and Bryozoa; -- called also Anthoid Mollusca.
Molt : Alt. of Moult
Moment : Impulsive power; force; momentum.
Momentum : Essential element, or constituent element.
Monadical : Of, pertaining to, or like, a monad, in any of its senses. See Monad, n.
Monarchial : Monarchic.
Monastic : A monk.
Moneral : Of or pertaining to the Monera.
Moneyage : Mintage; coinage.
Mongolian : One of the Mongols.
Monism : See Monogenesis, 1.
Monitrix : A female monitor.
Monkey's : "A lofty coniferous Chilian tree (Araucaria imbricata), the branches of which are so crowded and intertwisted ""as to puzzle a monkey to climb."" The edible nuts are over an inch long, and are called pi on by the Chilians."
Monocarpellary : Consisting of a single carpel, as the fruit of the pea, cherry, and almond.
Monocotyl : Any monocotyledonous plant.
Monodical : Belonging to a monody.
Monogamian : Alt. of Monogamic
Monogenous : Of or pertaining to monogenesis; as, monogenous, or asexual, reproduction.
Monogynia : A Linnaean order of plants, including those which have only one style or stigma.
Monomania : Derangement of the mind in regard of a single subject only; also, such a concentration of interest upon one particular subject or train of ideas to show mental derangement.
Monomyary : Of or pertaining to the Monomya.
Monoplegia : Paralysis affecting a single limb.
Monopoly : The commodity or other material thing to which the monopoly relates; as, tobacco is a monopoly in France.
Monostrophic : Having one strophe only; not varied in measure; written in unvaried measure.
Monothelite : One of an ancient sect who held that Christ had but one will as he had but one nature. Cf. Monophysite.
Monovalent : Having a valence of one; univalent. See Univalent.
Monster : Specifically , an animal or plant departing greatly from the usual type, as by having too many limbs.
Montanic : Of or pertaining to mountains; consisting of mountains.
Monthly : As if under the influence of the moon; in the manner of a lunatic.
Moo : See Mo.
Moon : A secondary planet, or satellite, revolving about any member of the solar system; as, the moons of Jupiter or Saturn.
Moon-eyed : Having eyes affected by the moon; moonblind; dim-eyed; purblind.
Moonset : The descent of the moon below the horizon; also, the time when the moon sets.
Moor : Any individual of the swarthy races of Africa or Asia which have adopted the Mohammedan religion.
Mooruk : A species of cassowary (Casuarius Bennetti) found in New Britain, and noted for its agility in running and leaping. It is smaller and has stouter legs than the common cassowary. Its crest is biloted; the neck and breast are black; the back, rufous mixed with black; and the naked skin of the neck, blue.
Moot-hill : A hill of meeting or council; an elevated place in the open air where public assemblies or courts were held by the Saxons; -- called, in Scotland, mute-hill.
Moplah : One of a class of Mohammedans in Malabar.
Moral : Serving to teach or convey a moral; as, a moral lesson; moral tales.
Moralizing : of Moralize
Morbid : Of or pertaining to disease or diseased parts; as, morbid anatomy.
Mordant : Any sticky matter by which the gold leaf is made to adhere.
More : With an adjective or adverb (instead of the suffix -er) to form the comparative degree; as, more durable; more active; more sweetly.
Morgue : A place where the bodies of persons found dead are exposed, that they may be identified, or claimed by their friends; a deadhouse.
Morioplasty : The restoration of lost parts of the body.
Morne : Without teeth, tongue, or claws; -- said of a lion represented heraldically.
Moroshop : A philosophical or learned fool.
Morphophyly : The tribal history of forms; that part of phylogeny which treats of the tribal history of forms, in distinction from the tribal history of functions.
Morse : A telegraphic alphabet in very general use, inventing by Samuel F.B.Morse, the inventor of Morse's telegraph. The letters are represented by dots and dashes impressed or printed on paper, as, .- (A), - . . . (B), -.. (D), . (E), .. (O), . . . (R), -- (T), etc., or by sounds, flashes of light, etc., with greater or less intervals between them.
Mortality : The condition or quality of being mortal; subjection to death or to the necessity of dying.
Mortgaging : of Mortgage
Mortify : To destroy the organic texture and vital functions of; to produce gangrene in.
Mortpay : Dead pay; the crime of taking pay for the service of dead soldiers, or for services not actually rendered by soldiers.
Mosaism : Attachment to the system or doctrines of Moses; that which is peculiar to the Mosaic system or doctrines.
Moss : A cryptogamous plant of a cellular structure, with distinct stem and simple leaves. The fruit is a small capsule usually opening by an apical lid, and so discharging the spores. There are many species, collectively termed Musci, growing on the earth, on rocks, and trunks of trees, etc., and a few in running water.
Mostick : A painter's maul-stick.
Mote : A body of persons who meet for discussion, esp. about the management of affairs; as, a folkmote.
Mothered : of Mother
Mothy : Infested with moths; moth-eaten.
Motion : To propose; to move.
Motmot : Any one of several species of long-tailed, passerine birds of the genus Momotus, having a strong serrated beak. In most of the species the two long middle tail feathers are racket-shaped at the tip, when mature. The bird itself is said by some writers to trim them into this shape. They feed on insects, reptiles, and fruit, and are found from Mexico to Brazil. The name is derived from its note.
Mottoed : Bearing or having a motto; as, a mottoed coat or device.
Mound : A ball or globe forming part of the regalia of an emperor or other sovereign. It is encircled with bands, enriched with precious stones, and surmounted with a cross; -- called also globe.
Mount : The cardboard or cloth on which a drawing, photograph, or the like is mounted; a mounting.
Mountebank : To cheat by boasting and false pretenses; to gull.
Mourn : To utter in a mournful manner or voice.
Mouse : To watch for and catch mice.
Mousy : Infested with mice; smelling of mice.
Mouth : To make mouths at.
Movable : An article of wares or goods; a commodity; a piece of property not fixed, or not a part of real estate; generally, in the plural, goods; wares; furniture.
Movement : The act of moving; change of place or posture; transference, by any means, from one situation to another; natural or appropriate motion; progress; advancement; as, the movement of an army in marching or maneuvering; the movement of a wheel or a machine; the party of movement.
Mow : of Mow
Mowing : The act of one who, or the operation of that which, mows.
Mucedin : A yellowish white, amorphous, nitrogenous substance found in wheat, rye, etc., and resembling gluten; -- formerly called also mucin.
Mucilaginous : Of, pertaining to, or secreting, mucilage; as, the mucilaginous glands.
Muckmidden : A dunghill.
Muculent : Slimy; moist, and moderately viscous.
Muddle : To think and act in a confused, aimless way.
Mudhole : A hole near the bottom, through which the sediment is withdrawn.
Muffish : Stupid; awkward.
Mug : A kind of earthen or metal drinking cup, with a handle, -- usually cylindrical and without a lip.
Muhammedan : Mohammedan.
Mulct : Hence, to deprive of; to withhold by way of punishment or discipline.
Mulierty : Condition of being a mulier; position of one born in lawful wedlock.
Muller : A vessel in which wine, etc., is mulled over a fire.
Mulliod : Like or pertaining to the genus Mullus, which includes the surmullet, or red mullet.
Multicuspidate : Having many cusps or points.
Multigranulate : Having, or consisting of, many grains.
Multiparous : Producing many, or more than one, at a birth.
Multiplier : One who, or that which, multiplies or increases number.
Multiseptate : Divided into many chambers by partitions, as the pith of the pokeweed.
Multivalent : Having more than one degree of valence, as sulphur.
Mumble : To speak with the lips partly closed, so as to render the sounds inarticulate and imperfect; to utter words in a grumbling indistinct manner, indicating discontent or displeasure; to mutter.
Mummification : The act of making a mummy.
Mump : To be sullen or sulky.
Mundatory : Cleansing; having power to cleanse.
Mungrel : See Mongrel.
Munjeet : See Indian madder, under Madder.
Murderer : A small cannon, formerly used for clearing a ship's decks of boarders; -- called also murdering piece.
Muricate : Alt. of Muricated
Murmur : To make a low continued noise, like the hum of bees, a stream of water, distant waves, or the wind in a forest.
Murry : See Muraena.
Muscadine : See Muscardin.
Muscle : See Mussel.
Musculation : The muscular system of an animal, or of any of its parts.
Muse : Contemplation which abstracts the mind from passing scenes; absorbing thought; hence, absence of mind; a brown study.
Music : Harmony; an accordant combination of simultaneous tones.
Musk : A plant of the genus Muscari; grape hyacinth.
Muskwood : The wood of an Australian tree (Eurybia argophylla).
Mussel : Any one of numerous species of Unio, and related fresh-water genera; -- called also river mussel. See Naiad, and Unio.
Mustachios : of Mustacho
Mustiness : The quality or state of being musty.
Mute : Incapable of speaking; dumb.
Mutilate : To cut off or remove a limb or essential part of; to maim; to cripple; to hack; as, to mutilate the body, a statue, etc.
Mutter : To utter words indistinctly or with a low voice and lips partly closed; esp., to utter indistinct complaints or angry expressions; to grumble; to growl.
Mux : To mix in an unitidy and offensive way; to make a mess of.
Myaria : A division of bivalve mollusks of which the common clam (Mya) is the type.
Mydriatic : A mydriatic medicine or agent, as belladonna.
Mylodon : An extinct genus of large slothlike American edentates, allied to Megatherium.
Myograph : An instrument for determining and recording the different phases, as the intensity, velocity, etc., of a muscular contraction.
Myophan : A contractile striated layer found in the bodies and stems of certain Infusoria.
Myriacanthous : Having numerous spines, as certain fishes.
Myriophyllous : Having an indefinitely great or countless number of leaves.
Myrrhic : Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, myrrh.
Mysteriousness : Something mysterious; a mystery.
Mystification : The act of mystifying, or the state of being mystied; also, something designed to, or that does, mystify.
Mythologizer : One who, or that which, mythologizes.
Myzostomata : An order of curious parasitic worms found on crinoids. The body is short and disklike, with four pairs of suckers and five pairs of hook-bearing parapodia on the under side.
Nadde : Had not.
Naiad : Any species of a tribe (Naiades) of freshwater bivalves, including Unio, Anodonta, and numerous allied genera; a river mussel.
Nailer : One whose occupation is to make nails; a nail maker.
Naked : Without pubescence; as, a naked leaf or stem; bare, or not covered by the customary parts, as a flower without a perianth, a stem without leaves, seeds without a pericarp, buds without bud scales.
Name : Those of a certain name; a race; a family.
Nandou : Alt. of Nandu
Napery : Table linen; also, linen clothing, or linen in general.
Naphthyl : A hydrocarbon radical regarded as the essential residue of naphthalene.
Nappy : Having a nap or pile; downy; shaggy.
Narcotize : To imbue with, or subject to the influence of, a narcotic; to put into a state of narcosis.
Narration : That part of a discourse which recites the time, manner, or consequences of an action, or simply states the facts connected with the subject.
Narrow : To lessen the breadth of; to contract; to draw into a smaller compass; to reduce the width or extent of.
Narwe : Narrow.
Nascent : Commencing, or in process of development; beginning to exist or to grow; coming into being; as, a nascent germ.
Nastily : In a nasty manner.
Natant : Floating in water, as the leaves of water lilies, or submersed, as those of many aquatic plants.
Natica : Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods belonging to Natica, Lunatia, Neverita, and other allied genera (family Naticidae.) They burrow beneath the sand, or mud, and drill other shells.
Nationalization : The act of nationalizing, or the state of being nationalized.
Nativist : An advocate of nativism.
Natural : Connected by the ties of consanguinity.
Naturalizing : of Naturalize
Natureless : Not in accordance with nature; unnatural.
Naumachy : A show or spectacle representing a sea fight; also, a place for such exhibitions.
Nautilite : A fossil nautilus.
Navel : An eye on the under side of a carronade for securing it to a carriage.
Navies : of Navvy
Nazarite : A Jew bound by a vow to lave the hair uncut, to abstain from wine and strong drink, and to practice extraordinary purity of life and devotion, the obligation being for life, or for a certain time. The word is also used adjectively.
Near : Not far distant in time, place, or degree; not remote; close at hand; adjacent; neighboring; nigh.
Neat : Cattle of the genus Bos, as distinguished from horses, sheep, and goats; an animal of the genus Bos; as, a neat's tongue; a neat's foot.
Nebula : A cloudy appearance in the urine.
Necessarily : In a necessary manner; by necessity; unavoidably; indispensably.
Necessitude : Necessitousness; want.
Neckband : A band which goes around the neck; often, the part at the top of a garment.
Necrolatry : The worship of the dead; manes worship.
Necropsy : A post-mortem examination or inspection; an autopsy. See Autopsy.
Nectarized : of Nectarize
Needed : of Need
Needlefish : The garfish.
Needy : Distressed by want of the means of living; very por; indigent; necessitous.
Negation : Description or definition by denial, exclusion, or exception; statement of what a thing is not, or has not, from which may be inferred what it is or has.
Negativity : The quality or state of being negative.
Negligence : The omission of the care usual under the circumstances, being convertible with the Roman culpa. A specialist is bound to higher skill and diligence in his specialty than one who is not a specialist, and liability for negligence varies acordingly.
Negotiatory : Of or pertaining to negotiation.
Neife : A woman born in the state of villeinage; a female serf.
Neighborhood : The disposition becoming a neighbor; neighborly kindness or good will.
Calyxes : of Nematocalyx
Nemertina : An order of helminths usually having a long, slender, smooth, often bright-colored body, covered with minute vibrating cilia; -- called also Nemertea, Nemertida, and Rhynchocoela.
Neodymium : An elementary substance which forms one of the constituents of didymium. Symbol Nd. Atomic weight 140.8.
Neologization : The act or process of neologizing.
Neoplatonism : A pantheistic eclectic school of philosophy, of which Plotinus was the chief (A. D. 205-270), and which sought to reconcile the Platonic and Aristotelian systems with Oriental theosophy. It tended to mysticism and theurgy, and was the last product of Greek philosophy.
Nepenthe : A drug used by the ancients to give relief from pain and sorrow; -- by some supposed to have been opium or hasheesh. Hence, anything soothing and comforting.
Nephrite : A hard compact mineral, of a dark green color, formerly worn as a remedy for diseases of the kidneys, whence its name; kidney stone; a kind of jade. See Jade.
Neptunist : One who adopts the neptunian theory.
Neroli : An essential oil obtained by distillation from the flowers of the orange. It has a strong odor, and is used in perfumery, etc.
Nervimotion : The movement caused in the sensory organs by external agents and transmitted to the muscles by the nerves.
Ness : A promontory; a cape; a headland.
Nestling : A young bird which has not abandoned the nest.
Net : Not including superfluous, incidental, or foreign matter, as boxes, coverings, wraps, etc.; free from charges, deductions, etc; as, net profit; net income; net weight, etc.
Nettles : The halves of yarns in the unlaid end of a rope twisted for pointing or grafting.
Neuration : The arrangement or distribution of nerves, as in the leaves of a plant or the wings of an insect; nervation.
Neurokeratin : A substance, resembling keratin, present in nerve tissue, as in the sheath of the axis cylinder of medullated nerve fibers. Like keratin it resists the action of most chemical agents, and by decomposition with sulphuric acid yields leucin and tyrosin.
Neuropterous : Neuropteral.
Neuter : Having no generative organs, or imperfectly developed ones; sexless. See Neuter, n., 3.
Neutralize : To render neutral; to reduce to a state of neutrality.
New : Not habituated; not familiar; unaccustomed.
Newing : Yeast; barm.
News-writer : One who gathered news for, and wrote, news-letters.
Nib : The bill or beak of a bird; the neb.
Nice : Overscrupulous or exacting; hard to please or satisfy; fastidious in small matters.
Nick : A particular point or place considered as marked by a nick; the exact point or critical moment.
Nicker : A rounded seed, rather smaller than a nutmeg, having a hard smooth shell, and a yellowish or bluish color. The seeds grow in the prickly pods of tropical, woody climbers of the genus Caesalpinia. C. Bonduc has yellowish seeds; C. Bonducella, bluish gray.
Nictate : To wink; to nictitate.
Nidulated : of Nidulate
Niggardish : Somewhat niggard.
Nigh : In a situation near in place or time, or in the course of events; near.
Nightfall : The close of the day.
Nigraniline : The complex, nitrogenous, organic base and dyestuff called also aniline black.
Nilgau : see Nylghau.
Nimbly : In a nimble manner; with agility; with light, quick motion.
Ninepence : An old English silver coin, worth nine pence.
Ninety : A symbol representing ninety units, as 90 or xc.
Nipping : of Nip
Nippers : A number of rope-yarns wound together, used to secure a cable to the messenger.
Nitency : Endeavor; rffort; tendency.
Nitrification : A process of oxidation, in which nitrogenous vegetable and animal matter in the presence of air, moisture, and some basic substances, as lime or alkali carbonate, is converted into nitrates.
Nitrogenizing : of Nitrogenize
Nitrosyl : the radical NO, called also the nitroso group. The term is sometimes loosely used to designate certain nitro compounds; as, nitrosyl sulphuric acid. Used also adjectively.
No : Nay; not; not at all; not in any respect or degree; -- a word expressing negation, denial, or refusal. Before or after another negative, no is emphatic.
Noble : Grand; stately; magnificent; splendid; as, a noble edifice.
Nobodies : of Nobody
Noctiluca : That which shines at night; -- a fanciful name for phosphorus.
Nocturne : "A night piece, or serenade. The name is now used for a certain graceful and expressive form of instrumental composition, as the nocturne for orchestra in Mendelsohn's ""Midsummer-Night's Dream"" music."
Noddies : of Noddy
Nodose : Knotty; having numerous or conspicuous nodes.
Nog : A noggin.
Noise : Loud or continuous talk; general talk or discussion; rumor; report.
Noli-me-tangere : A name formerly applied to several varieties of ulcerous cutaneous diseases, but now restricted to Lupus exedens, an ulcerative affection of the nose.
Nomadizing : of Nomadize
Nomenclature : A vocabulary, dictionary, or glossary.
Nominate : To name, or designate by name, for an office or place; to appoint; esp., to name as a candidate for an election, choice, or appointment; to propose by name, or offer the name of, as a candidate for an office or place.
Non- : A prefix used in the sense of not; un-; in-; as in nonattention, or non-attention, nonconformity, nonmetallic, nonsuit.
Nonappearance : Default of apperance, as in court, to prosecute or defend; failure to appear.
Noncompliance : Neglect of compliance; failure to comply.
Noncontributory : Not contributing.
Nonelectric : Alt. of Nonelectrical
Nonett : The titmouse.
Nonjurorism : The doctrines, or action, of the Nonjurors.
Non : A clause in old English statutes and letters patent, importing a license from the crown to do a thing notwithstanding any statute to the contrary. This dispensing power was abolished by the Bill of Rights.
Nonpresentation : Neglect or failure to present; state of not being presented.
Nonresistant : Making no resistance.
Nonsubmission : Want of submission; failure or refusal to submit.
Nonvocal : Not vocal; destitute of tone.
Noon-flower : The goat's beard, whose flowers close at midday.
Norimons : of Norimon
Norman : A wooden bar, or iron pin.
Northeast : The point between the north and east, at an equal distance from each; the northeast part or region.
Northing : The distance of any heavenly body from the equator northward; north declination.
Northwestwardly : Toward the northwest.
Nosed : Having a nose, or such a nose; -- chieflay used in composition; as, pug-nosed.
Nostoc : A genus of algae. The plants are composed of moniliform cells imbedded in a gelatinous substance.
Notably : In a notable manner.
Notchboard : The board which receives the ends of the steps in a staircase.
Note : A musical sound; a tone; an utterance; a tune.
Notelessness : A state of being noteless.
Notice : Attention; respectful treatment; civility.
Notion : An invention; an ingenious device; a knickknack; as, Yankee notions.
Notorhizal : Having the radicle of the embryo lying against the back of one of the cotyledons; incumbent.
Nougat : A cake, sweetmeat, or confection made with almonds or other nuts.
Nourishable : Capable of being nourished; as, the nourishable parts of the body.
Novel : Of recent origin or introduction; not ancient; new; hence, out of the ordinary course; unusual; strange; surprising.
Novenary : Of or pertaining to the number nine.
Now : Very lately; not long ago.
Nowthe : See Nouthe.
Nubeculae : of Nubecula
Nucha : The back or upper part of the neck; the nape.
Nucleolus : A little nucleus.
Nude : Naked; without consideration; void; as, a nude contract. See Nudum pactum.
Nugatory : Of no force; inoperative; ineffectual.
Nullipore : A name for certain crustaceous marine algae which secrete carbonate of lime on their surface, and were formerly thought to be of animal nature. They are now considered corallines of the genera Melobesia and Lithothamnion.
Numbered : of Number
Numerary : Belonging to a certain number; counting as one of a collection or body.
Numidian : Of or pertaining to ancient Numidia in Northern Africa.
Nun : A white variety of domestic pigeons having a veil of feathers covering the head.
Nundinal : Alt. of Nundinary
Nurse : A lieutenant or first officer, who is the real commander when the captain is unfit for his place.
Nursery : The place where anything is fostered and growth promoted.
Nutting : of Nut
Nutmegged : Seasoned with nutmeg.
Nutter : A gatherer of nuts.
Nyctalopy : Same as Nyctalopia.
Nymphet : A little or young nymph.
O : Something shaped like the letter O; a circle or oval.
Oared : of Oar
Oat : A musical pipe made of oat straw.
Obdormition : Sleep.
Obedience : A following; a body of adherents; as, the Roman Catholic obedience, or the whole body of persons who submit to the authority of the pope.
Obelizing : of Obelize
Obfirmation : Hardness of heart; obduracy.
Objecting : of Object
Objective : Of or pertaining to an object; contained in, or having the nature or position of, an object; outward; external; extrinsic; -- an epithet applied to whatever ir exterior to the mind, or which is simply an object of thought or feeling, and opposed to subjective.
Oblate : Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblate spheroid.
Obligate : To bring or place under obligation, moral or legal; to hold by a constraining motive.
Obligor : The person who binds himself, or gives his bond to another.
Obliterate : To erase or blot out; to efface; to render undecipherable, as a writing.
Obloquious : Containing obloquy; reproachful
Oboval : Obovate.
Obscure : Not easily understood; not clear or legible; abstruse or blind; as, an obscure passage or inscription.
Obsequies : See Obsequy.
Observant : A sycophantic servant.
Observed : of Observe
Obsignate : To seal; to ratify.
Obstetrician : One skilled in obstetrics; an accoucheur.
Obstruction : That which obstructs or impedes; an obstacle; an impediment; a hindrance.
Obtainment : The act or process of obtaining; attainment.
Obtrude : To thrust impertinently; to present without warrant or solicitation; as, to obtrude one's self upon a company.
Obtuse : Not pointed or acute; blunt; -- applied esp. to angles greater than a right angle, or containing more than ninety degrees.
Obversion : The act of turning toward or downward.
Occasion : An occurrence or condition of affairs which brings with it some unlooked-for event; that which incidentally brings to pass an event, without being its efficient cause or sufficient reason; accidental or incidental cause.
Occiduous : Western; occidental.
Occultation : The hiding of a heavenly body from sight by the intervention of some other of the heavenly bodies; -- applied especially to eclipses of stars and planets by the moon, and to the eclipses of satellites of planets by their primaries.
Occupy : To hold, or fill, the dimensions of; to take up the room or space of; to cover or fill; as, the camp occupies five acres of ground.
Ocean : The whole body of salt water which covers more than three fifths of the surface of the globe; -- called also the sea, or great sea.
Ochre : A metallic oxide occurring in earthy form; as, tungstic ocher or tungstite.
Ochry : See Ochery.
Octameter : A verse containing eight feet; as, --//Deep# in|to# the | dark#ness | peer#ing, | long# I | stood# there | wond'#ring, | fear#ing.
Octave : A small cask of wine, the eighth part of a pipe.
Octodecimo : Having eighteen leaves to a sheet; as, an octodecimo form, book, leaf, size, etc.
Octopede : An animal having eight feet, as a spider.
Octuor : See Octet.
Oculonasal : Of or pertaining to the region of the eye and the nose; as, the oculonasal, or nasal, nerve, one of the branches of the ophthalmic.
Oddness : Singularity; strangeness; eccentricity; irregularity; uncouthness; as, the oddness of dress or shape; the oddness of an event.
Odometer : An instrument attached to the wheel of a vehicle, to measure the distance traversed; also, a wheel used by surveyors, which registers the miles and rods traversed.
Odontolcae : An extinct order of ostrichlike aquatic birds having teeth, which are set in a groove in the jaw. It includes Hesperornis, and allied genera. See Hesperornis.
Ods : A corruption of God's; -- formerly used in oaths and ejaculatory phrases.
Oenanthone : The ketone of oenanthic acid.
Oestruation : The state of being under oestrual influence, or of having sexual desire.
Off : Denoting a different direction; not on or towards: away; as, to look off.
Odfend : To transgress the moral or divine law; to commit a crime; to stumble; to sin.
Offer : To bring to or before; to hold out to; to present for acceptance or rejection; as, to offer a present, or a bribe; to offer one's self in marriage.
Offertory : The Scripture sentences said or sung during the collection of the offerings.
Officer : To command as an officer; as, veterans from old regiments officered the recruits.
Officious : Pertaining to, or being in accordance with, duty.
Offset : To make an offset.
Ogdoad : A thing made up of eight parts.
Ogygian : Of or pertaining to Ogyges, a mythical king of ancient Attica, or to a great deluge in Attica in his days; hence, primeval; of obscure antiquity.
Oilman : One who deals in oils; formerly, one who dealt in oils and pickles.
Okenite : A massive and fibrous mineral of a whitish color, chiefly hydrous silicate of lime.
Old-gentlemanly : Pertaining to an old gentleman, or like one.
Olefiant : Forming or producing an oil; specifically, designating a colorless gaseous hydrocarbon called ethylene.
Olfaction : The sense by which the impressions made on the olfactory organs by the odorous particles in the atmosphere are perceived.
Oligarchies : of Oligarchy
Olio : A collection of miscellaneous pieces.
Oliverian : An adherent of Oliver Cromwell.
Omahas : A tribe of Indians who inhabited the south side of the Missouri River. They are now partly civilized and occupy a reservation in Nebraska.
Omiletical : Homiletical.
Omnibus : A long four-wheeled carriage, having seats for many people; especially, one with seats running lengthwise, used in conveying passengers short distances.
Omnipotency : The state of being omnipotent; almighty power; hence, one who is omnipotent; the Deity.
Omo- : A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the shoulder or the scapula.
Omphalotomy : The operation of dividing the navel-string.
On : Forward, in succession; as, from father to son, from the son to the grandson, and so on.
Oncometer : An instrument for measuring the variations in size of the internal organs of the body, as the kidney, spleen, etc.
One-horse : Drawn by one horse; having but a single horse; as, a one-horse carriage.
Onerous : Burdensome; oppressive.
Only : So and no otherwise; no other than; exclusively; solely; wholly.
Onondagas : A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting what is now a part of the State of New York. They were the central or head tribe of the Five Nations.
Onus : A burden; an obligation.
Oogoniums : of Oogonium
Oophorida : of Oophoridium
Ootocoid : A half oviparous, or an oviparous, mammal; a marsupial or monotreme.
Opalesced : of Opalesce
Open : Free or cleared of obstruction to progress or to view; accessible; as, an open tract; the open sea.
Open : To unclose; to form a hole, breach, or gap; to be unclosed; to be parted.
Openwork : A quarry; an open cut.
Operatic : Alt. of Operatical
Opercula : See Operculum.
Operosity : Laboriousness.
Ophiologist : One versed in the natural history of serpents.
Ophiuroidea : A class of star-shaped echinoderms having a disklike body, with slender, articulated arms, which are not grooved beneath and are often very fragile; -- called also Ophiuroida and Ophiuridea. See Illust. under Brittle star.
Opiate : To subject to the influence of an opiate; to put to sleep.
Opiniative : Opinionative.
Opinionator : An opinionated person; one given to conjecture.
Opium : The inspissated juice of the Papaver somniferum, or white poppy.
Oppone : To oppose.
Oppose : To put in opposition, with a view to counterbalance or countervail; to set against; to offer antagonistically.
Opposition : Repugnance; contrariety of sentiment, interest, or purpose; antipathy.
Oppressive : Heavy; overpowering; hard to be borne; as, oppressive grief or woe.
Optation : The act of optating; a wish.
Optimates : The nobility or aristocracy of ancient Rome, as opposed to the populares.
Optography : The production of an optogram on the retina by the photochemical action of light on the visual purple; the fixation of an image in the eye. The object so photographed shows white on a purple or red background. See Visual purple, under Visual.
Orabassu : A South American monkey of the genus Callithrix, esp.
Orally : In an oral manner.
Orator : A public speaker; one who delivers an oration; especially, one distinguished for his skill and power as a public speaker; one who is eloquent.
Orb : A circle; esp., a circle, or nearly circular orbit, described by the revolution of a heavenly body; an orbit.
Orbiculate : That which is orbiculate; especially, a solid the vertical section of which is oval, and the horizontal section circular.
Orbulina : A genus of minute living Foraminifera having a globular shell.
Orchestra : A band composed, for the largest part, of players of the various viol instruments, many of each kind, together with a proper complement of wind instruments of wood and brass; -- as distinguished from a military or street band of players on wind instruments, and from an assemblage of solo players for the rendering of concerted pieces, such as septets, octets, and the like.
Orcin : A colorless crystalline substance, C6H3.CH3.(OH)2, which is obtained from certain lichens (Roccella, Lecanora, etc.), also from extract of aloes, and artificially from certain derivatives of toluene. It changes readily into orcein.
Order : Right arrangement; a normal, correct, or fit condition; as, the house is in order; the machinery is out of order.
Orderable : Capable of being ordered; tractable.
Ordinal : A book containing the rubrics of the Mass.
Ordinary : Anything which is in ordinary or common use.
Ordure : Defect; imperfection; fault.
Orfe : A bright-colored domesticated variety of the id. See Id.
Organicalness : The quality or state of being organic.
Organizer : One who organizes.
Organophyly : The tribal history of organs, -- a branch of morphophyly.
Oricalche : See Orichalch.
Orientalist : An inhabitant of the Eastern parts of the world; an Oriental.
Origan : Alt. of Origanum
Originally : At first; at the origin; at the time of formation or costruction; as, a book originally written by another hand.
Orismology : That departament of natural history which treats of technical terms.
Ornamentally : By way of ornament.
Ornithologist : One skilled in ornithology; a student of ornithology; one who describes birds.
Orologist : One versed in orology.
Orpharion : An old instrument of the lute or cittern kind.
Orsellinic : Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained by a partial decomposition of orsellic acid as a white crystalline substance, and related to protocatechuic acid.
Orthodox : According or congruous with the doctrines of Scripture, the creed of a church, the decree of a council, or the like; as, an orthodox opinion, book, etc.
Orthognathic : Orthognathous.
Orthometry : The art or practice of constructing verses correctly; the laws of correct versification.
Orthostade : A chiton, or loose, ungirded tunic, falling in straight folds.
-ory : A noun suffix denoting that which pertains to, or serves for; as in ambulatory, that which serves for walking; consistory, factory, etc.
Osages : A tribe of southern Sioux Indians, now living in the Indian Territory.
Oscinian : Any one of numerous species of dipterous files of the family Oscinidae.
Osculation : The contact of one curve with another, when the number of consecutive points of the latter through which the former passes suffices for the complete determination of the former curve.
Osmateria : of Osmaterium
Osphradium : The olfactory organ of some Mollusca. It is connected with the organ of respiration.
Ossification : The state of being changed into a bony substance; also, a mass or point of ossified tissue.
Osteler : Same as Hosteler.
Ostentive : Ostentatious.
Osteographer : An osteologist.
Osteosarcomata : of Osteosarcoma
Ostosis : Bone formation; ossification. See Ectostosis, and Endostosis.
Ostreophagist : One who feeds on oysters.
Other : Not this, but the contrary; opposite; as, the other side of a river.
Otitis : Inflammation of the ear.
Otoscopy : The examination of the ear; the art of using the otoscope.
Oughne : Own.
Ouphen : Elfish.
Oust : To take away; to remove.
Outargue : To surpass or conquer in argument.
Outbowed : Convex; curved outward.
Outbuild : To exceed in building, or in durability of building.
Outcrop : To come out to the surface of the ground; -- said of strata.
Outer : A shot which strikes the outer of a target.
Outfitter : One who furnishes outfits for a voyage, a journey, or a business.
Outgive : To surpass in giving.
Outguard : A guard or small body of troops at a distance from the main body of an army, to watch for the approach of an enemy; hence, anything for defense placed at a distance from the thing to be defended.
Outlandish : Hence: Not according with usage; strange; rude; barbarous; uncouth; clownish; as, an outlandish dress, behavior, or speech.
Outlet : The place or opening by which anything is let out; a passage out; an exit; a vent.
Outlook : To face down; to outstare.
Outness : The state or quality of being distanguishable from the perceiving mind, by being in space, and possessing marerial quality; externality; objectivity.
Outpower : To excel in power; to overpover.
Outraye : See Outrage, v. i.
Outright : Completely; utterly.
Outscouring : That which is scoured out o/ washed out.
Outsider : A locksmith's pinchers for grasping the point of a key in the keyhole, to open a door from the outside when the key is inside.
Outspread : To spread out; to expand; -- usually as a past part. / adj.
Outsweeten : To surpass in sweetness.
Outvote : To exceed in the number of votes given; to defeat by votes.
Outwell : To issue forth.
Oval : Having the figure of an egg; oblong and curvilinear, with one end broader than the other, or with both ends of about the same breadth; in popular usage, elliptical.
Ovary : The essential female reproductive organ in which the ova are produced. See Illust. of Discophora.
Over : Above, or higher than, in place or position, with the idea of covering; -- opposed to under; as, clouds are over our heads; the smoke rises over the city.
Overact : To act or perform to excess; to exaggerate in acting; as, he overacted his part.
Overbarren : Excessively barren.
Overbreed : To breed to excess.
Overcast : To cast or cover over; hence, to cloud; to darken.
Overcome : of Overcome
Overdeal : The excess.
Overdress : To dress or adorn to excess; to dress too much.
Overexquisite : Too exquisite; too exact or nice; too careful.
Overflow : To run over the bounds.
Overfreighting : of Overfreight
Overwent : of Overgo
Overgrow : To grow beyond the fit or natural size; as, a huge, overgrown ox.
Overhardy : Too hardy; overbold.
Overhipped : of Overhip
Overladed : of Overlade
Overlay : To lay, or spread, something over or across; hence, to cover; to overwhelm; to press excessively upon.
Overlight : Too light or frivolous; giddy.
Overlooker : One who overlooks.
Overmatch : One superior in power; also, an unequal match; a contest in which one of the opponents is overmatched.
Overmultiply : To multiply or increase too much; to repeat too often.
Overpassionate : Passionate to excess.
Overpowered : of Overpower
Overraked : of Overrake
Overready : Too ready.
Overripe : Matured to excess.
Overrun : To run, pass, spread, or flow over or by something; to be beyond, or in excess.
Oversee : To see too or too much; hence, to be deceived.
Overshadower : One that throws a shade, or shadow, over anything.
Overslaugh : A bar in a river; as, the overslaugh in the Hudson River.
Overspread : of Overspread
Overstocked : of Overstock
Oversupply : An excessive supply.
Overthrow : To throw over; to overturn; to upset; to turn upside down.
Overtoil : To weary excessively; to exhaust.
Overture : A composition, for a full orchestra, designed as an introduction to an oratorio, opera, or ballet, or as an independent piece; -- called in the latter case a concert overture.
Overwar : To defeat.
Overwet : Excessive wetness.
Overwork : Work in excess of the usual or stipulated time or quantity; extra work; also, excessive labor.
Ovipara : An artifical division of vertebrates, including those that lay eggs; -- opposed to Vivipara.
Ovoplasma : Yolk; egg yolk.
Ought : of Owe
Owler : One who owls; esp., one who conveys contraband goods. See Owling, n.
Oxen : of Ox
Oxamethylane : Methyl oxamate, obtained as a pearly white crystalline substance.
Oxeyed : Having large, full eyes, like those of an ox.
Oxidizable : Capable of being oxidized.
Oxshoe : A shoe for oxen, consisting of a flat piece of iron nailed to the hoof.
Oxygen : A colorless, tasteless, odorless, gaseous element occurring in the free state in the atmosphere, of which it forms about 23 per cent by weight and about 21 per cent by volume, being slightly heavier than nitrogen. Symbol O. Atomic weight 15.96.
Oxyhaemoglobin : Alt. of Oxyhemoglobin
Oxysulphuret : An oxysulphide.
Ozonation : The act of treating with ozone; also, the act of converting into, or producing, ozone; ozonization.
Paas : Pace
Pace : A broad step or platform; any part of a floor slightly raised above the rest, as around an altar, or at the upper end of a hall.
Pachonta : A substance resembling gutta-percha, and used to adulterate it, obtained from the East Indian tree Isonandra acuminata.
Pacificator : One who, or that which, pacifies; a peacemaker.
Packing : of Pack
Packer : A person whose business is to pack things; especially, one who packs food for preservation; as, a pork packer.
Packman : One who bears a pack; a peddler.
Pad : To rob on foot.
Padding : Material of inferior value, serving to extend a book, essay, etc.
Paddock : A toad or frog.
Padroni : of Padrone
Paganical : Of or pertaining to pagans or paganism; heathenish; paganish.
Page : To mark or number the pages of, as a book or manuscript; to furnish with folios.
Pah : An exclamation expressing disgust or contempt. See Bah.
Pain : Uneasiness of mind; mental distress; disquietude; anxiety; grief; solicitude; anguish.
Paint : To cover with coloring matter; to apply paint to; as, to paint a house, a signboard, etc.
Painting : Color laid on; paint.
Pair : To impair.
Palaestra : See Palestra.
Palate : Relish; taste; liking; -- a sense originating in the mistaken notion that the palate is the organ of taste.
Palatopterygoid : Pertaining to the palatine and pterygoid region of the skull; as, the palatopterygoid cartilage, or rod, from which the palatine and pterygoid bones are developed.
Pale : A shore for bracing a timber before it is fastened.
Paleocarida : Same as Merostomata.
Paleontologist : One versed in paleontology.
Palestinean : Of or pertaining to Palestine.
Pali : A dialect descended from Sanskrit, and like that, a dead language, except when used as the sacred language of the Buddhist religion in Farther India, etc.
Palinurus : An instrument for obtaining directly, without calculation, the true bearing of the sun, and thence the variation of the compass
Pall : A large cloth, esp., a heavy black cloth, thrown over a coffin at a funeral; sometimes, also, over a tomb.
Pallas : Pallas Athene, the Grecian goddess of wisdom, called also Athene, and identified, at a later period, with the Roman Minerva.
Palliasse : See Paillasse.
Pallia : of Pallium
Palm : To manipulate with, or conceal in, the palm of the hand; to juggle.
Palmatisect : Alt. of Palmatisected
Palmipedes : Same as Natatores.
Palpable : Easily perceptible; plain; distinct; obvious; readily perceived and detected; gross; as, palpable imposture; palpable absurdity; palpable errors.
Palpless : Without a palpus.
Palter : To babble; to chatter.
Paludinous : Of or pertaining to a marsh or fen.
Pampered : Fed luxuriously; indulged to the full; hence, luxuriant.
Pan : The betel leaf; also, the masticatory made of the betel leaf, etc. See /etel.
Panade : Bread boiled in water to the consistence of pulp, and sweetened or flavored.
Pancratium : A genus of Old World amaryllideous bulbous plants, having a funnel-shaped perianth with six narrow spreading lobes. The American species are now placed in the related genus Hymenocallis.
Pandered : of Pander
Pane : The narrow edge of a hammer head. See Peen.
Panel : A sunken compartment with raised margins, molded or otherwise, as in ceilings, wainscotings, etc.
Paneulogism : Eulogy of everything; indiscriminate praise.
Panicle : A pyramidal form of inflorescence, in which the cluster is loosely branched below and gradually simpler toward the end.
Pannier : A bread basket; also, a wicker basket (used commonly in pairs) for carrying fruit or other things on a horse or an ass
Panorpian : Like, or pertaining to, the genus Panorpa.
Panspermy : The doctrine of the widespread distribution of germs, from which under favorable circumstances bacteria, vibrios, etc., may develop.
Pantagruelism : An assumption of buffoonery to cover some serious purpose.
Pantheistic : Alt. of Pantheistical
Pantograph : An instrument for copying plans, maps, and other drawings, on the same, or on a reduced or an enlarged, scale.
Pantophagy : The habit or power of eating all kinds of food.
Papacy : The office and dignity of the pope, or pontiff, of Rome; papal jurisdiction.
Papaw : A tree of the genus Asimina (A. triloba), growing in the western and southern parts of the United States, and producing a sweet edible fruit; also, the fruit itself.
Papery : Like paper; having the thinness or consistence of paper.
Papillomata : of Papilloma
Pappy : Like pap; soft; succulent; tender.
Papyrus : A manuscript written on papyrus; esp., pl., written scrolls made of papyrus; as, the papyri of Egypt or Herculaneum.
Parabolical : Of the nature of a parable; expressed by a parable or figure; allegorical; as, parabolical instruction.
Parachronism : An error in chronology, by which the date of an event is set later than the time of its occurrence.
Parade : A public walk; a promenade.
Paradise : The abode of sanctified souls after death.
Paradoxer : Alt. of Paradoxist
Paragnathus : One of the two lobes which form the lower lip, or metastome, of Crustacea.
Paragraph : A brief composition complete in one typographical section or paragraph; an item, remark, or quotation comprised in a few lines forming one paragraph; as, a column of news paragraphs; an editorial paragraph.
Paraldehyde : A polymeric modification of aldehyde obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Parallel : A character consisting of two parallel vertical lines (thus, ) used in the text to direct attention to a similarly marked note in the margin or at the foot of a page.
Parallelopiped : A solid, the faces of which are six parallelograms, the opposite pairs being parallel, and equal to each other; a prism whose base is a parallelogram.
Param : A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C2H4N4); -- called also dicyandiamide.
Paramorphism : The change of one mineral species to another, so as to involve a change in physical characters without alteration of chemical composition.
Parapegm : An engraved tablet, usually of brass, set up in a public place.
Paraphrasing : of Paraphrase
Paraquet : Alt. of Paraquito
Parasitical : Of the nature of a parasite; fawning for food or favors; sycophantic.
Parathetic : Of or pertaining to parathesis.
Parbuckled : of Parbuckle
Parcenary : The holding or occupation of an inheritable estate which descends from the ancestor to two or more persons; coheirship.
Pardon : The act of pardoning; forgiveness, as of an offender, or of an offense; release from penalty; remission of punishment; absolution.
Pare : Fig.: To diminish the bulk of; to reduce; to lessen.
Parent : That which produces; cause; source; author; begetter; as, idleness is the parent of vice.
Parer : One who, or that which, pares; an instrument for paring.
Parget : Gypsum or plaster stone.
Paries : The triangular middle part of each segment of the shell of a barnacle.
Paris : A plant common in Europe (Paris quadrifolia); herb Paris; truelove. It has been used as a narcotic.
Park : A tract of ground kept in its natural state, about or adjacent to a residence, as for the preservation of game, for walking, riding, or the like.
Parleying : of Parley
Parmesan : Of or pertaining to Parma in Italy.
Parodying : of Parody
Paronym : A paronymous word.
Paroxysm : The fit, attack, or exacerbation, of a disease that occurs at intervals, or has decided remissions or intermissions.
Parricide : Properly, one who murders one's own father; in a wider sense, one who murders one's father or mother or any ancestor.
Parse : To resolve into its elements, as a sentence, pointing out the several parts of speech, and their relation to each other by government or agreement; to analyze and describe grammatically.
Part : A constituent portion of a living or spiritual whole; a member; an organ; an essential element.
Part : Partly; in a measure.
Parterre : The pit of a theater; the parquet.
Partiality : The quality or state of being partial; inclination to favor one party, or one side of a question, more than the other; undue bias of mind.
Participative : Capable of participating.
Particular : Containing a part only; limited; as, a particular estate, or one precedent to an estate in remainder.
Particularize : To mention or attend to particulars; to give minute details; to be circumstantial; as, to particularize in a narrative.
Partisan : The commander of a body of detached light troops engaged in making forays and harassing an enemy.
Partitively : In a partitive manner.
Parturient : Bringing forth, or about to bring forth, young; fruitful.
Party-colored : Alt. of Parti-colored
Pash : To strike; to crush; to smash; to dash in pieces.
Pasquinade : A lampoon or satirical writing.
Pass : In football, hockey, etc., to make a pass; to transfer the ball, etc., to another player of one's own side.
Pass : Fig.: a thrust; a sally of wit.
Passage : A particular portion constituting a part of something continuous; esp., a portion of a book, speech, or musical composition; a paragraph; a clause.
Passe : A light picture frame or mat of cardboard, wood, or the like, usually put between the picture and the glass, and sometimes serving for several pictures.
Passion : The state of the mind when it is powerfully acted upon and influenced by something external to itself; the state of any particular faculty which, under such conditions, becomes extremely sensitive or uncontrollably excited; any emotion or sentiment (specifically, love or anger) in a state of abnormal or controlling activity; an extreme or inordinate desire; also, the capacity or susceptibility of being so affected; as, to be in a passion; the passions of love, hate, jealously, wrath, ambition, avarice, fear, etc.; a passion for war, or for drink; an orator should have passion as well as rhetorical skill.
Passiontide : The last fortnight of Lent.
Passport : A license granted in time of war for the removal of persons and effects from a hostile country; a safe-conduct.
Pasting : of Paste
Pastille : A small cone or mass made of paste of gum, benzoin, cinnamon, and other aromatics, -- used for fumigating or scenting the air of a room.
Pastorling : An insignificant pastor.
Pasties : of Pasty
Patch : A piece of cloth, or other suitable material, sewed or otherwise fixed upon a garment to repair or strengthen it, esp. upon an old garment to cover a hole.
Patchy : Full of, or covered with, patches; abounding in patches.
Paten : A plate.
Patently : Openly; evidently.
Pathed : of Path
Pathognomonic : Specially or decisively characteristic of a disease; indicating with certainty a disease; as, a pathognomonic symptom.
Patient : Having the quality of enduring; physically able to suffer or bear.
Patriarch : The father and ruler of a family; one who governs his family or descendants by paternal right; -- usually applied to heads of families in ancient history, especially in Biblical and Jewish history to those who lived before the time of Moses.
Patricianism : The rank or character of patricians.
Patrizate : To imitate one's father.
Patron : One who has gift and disposition of a benefice.
Patronizer : One who patronizes.
Patter : To spatter; to sprinkle.
Pattypan : A patty.
Paulist : A member of The Institute of the Missionary Priests of St. Paul the Apostle, founded in 1858 by the Rev. I. T. Hecker of New York. The majority of the members were formerly Protestants.
Pause : A temporary stop or rest; an intermission of action; interruption; suspension; cessation.
Paving : of Pave
Pavilion : That part of a brilliant which lies between the girdle and collet. See Illust. of Brilliant.
Pavonine : Characteristic of a peacock; resembling the tail of a peacock, as in colors; iridescent.
Pawn : To pledge for the fulfillment of a promise; to stake; to risk; to wager; to hazard.
Pay : Hence, figuratively: To compensate justly; to requite according to merit; to reward; to punish; to retort or retaliate upon.
Paynim : See Painim.
Peacebreaker : One who disturbs the public peace.
Peak : The top, or one of the tops, of a hill, mountain, or range, ending in a point; often, the whole hill or mountain, esp. when isolated; as, the Peak of Teneriffe.
Peal : To appeal.
Pearl : Nacre, or mother-of-pearl.
Pearlwort : A name given to several species of Sagina, low and inconspicuous herbs of the Chickweed family.
Peat : A small person; a pet; -- sometimes used contemptuously.
Peccancy : A sin; an offense.
Peck : A quick, sharp stroke, as with the beak of a bird or a pointed instrument.
Pectinately : In a pectinate manner.
Pectoriloquial : Pertaining to, or of the nature of, pectoriloquy.
Peculiar : A particular parish or church which is exempt from the jurisdiction of the ordinary.
Pedagogic : Alt. of Pedagogical
Pedantically : In a pedantic manner.
Peddlery : Trifling; trickery.
Pedestrianize : To practice walking; to travel on foot.
Pediculation : Phthiriasis.
Pedipalpus : One of the second pair of mouth organs of arachnids. In some they are leglike, but in others, as the scorpion, they terminate in a claw.
Pedunculated : Having a peduncle; growing on a peduncle; as, a pedunculate flower; a pedunculate eye, as in a lobster.
Peelhouse : See 1st Peel.
Peepul : A sacred tree (Ficus religiosa) of the Buddhists, a kind of fig tree which attains great size and venerable age. See Bo tree.
Peevish : Expressing fretfulness and discontent, or unjustifiable dissatisfaction; as, a peevish answer.
Pegasus : A northen constellation near the vernal equinoctial point. Its three brightest stars, with the brightest star of Andromeda, form the square of Pegasus.
Pekoe : A kind of black tea.
Pelfish : Of or pertaining to pelf.
Pellet : A bullet; a ball for firearms.
Peloponnesian : Of or pertaining to the Peloponnesus, or southern peninsula of Greece.
Pelter : One who pelts.
Pen : A female swan.
Penalty : A handicap.
Pencil : A number of lines that intersect in one point, the point of intersection being called the pencil point.
Pend : To be undecided, or in process of adjustment.
Pendragon : A chief leader or a king; a head; a dictator; -- a title assumed by the ancient British chiefs when called to lead other chiefs.
Penetrancy : The quality or state of being penetrant; power of entering or piercing; penetrating power of quality; as, the penetrancy of subtile effluvia.
Penguin : Any bird of the order Impennes, or Ptilopteri. They are covered with short, thick feathers, almost scalelike on the wings, which are without true quills. They are unable to fly, but use their wings to aid in diving, in which they are very expert. See King penguin, under Jackass.
Penitent : One who repents of sin; one sorrowful on account of his transgressions.
Penknives : of Penknife
Pennatulacea : A division of alcyonoid corals, including the seapens and related kinds. They are able to move about by means of the hollow muscular peduncle, which also serves to support them upright in the mud. See Pennatula, and Illust. under Alcyonaria.
Penny : See Denarius.
Pension : A payment; a tribute; something paid or given.
Penstock : A close conduit or pipe for conducting water, as, to a water wheel, or for emptying a pond, or for domestic uses.
Pentacrons : of Pentacron
Pentagraphic : Alt. of Pentagraphical
Pentandrian : Alt. of Pentandrous
Pentathionic : Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of sulphur obtained by leading hydrogen sulphide into a solution of sulphur dioxide; -- so called because it contains five atoms of sulphur.
Pentine : An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C5H8, of the acetylene series. Same as Valerylene.
Penurious : Excessively sparing in the use of money; sordid; stingy; miserly.
People : One's subjects; fellow citizens; companions; followers.
Peppering : of Pepper
Pepsinhydrochloric : Same as Peptohydrochloric.
Per- : Originally, denoting that the element to the name of which it is prefixed in the respective compounds exercised its highest valence; now, only that the element has a higher valence than in other similar compounds; thus, barium peroxide is the highest oxide of barium; while nitrogen and manganese peroxides, so-called, are not the highest oxides of those elements.
Perbend : See Perpender.
Perceiver : One who perceives (in any of the senses of the verb).
Perch : A pole connecting the fore gear and hind gear of a spring carriage; a reach.
Percipient : Having the faculty of perception; perceiving; as, a percipient being.
Percuss : To strike or tap in an examination by percussion. See Percussion, 3.
Perdulous : Lost; thrown away.
Peremptorily : In a peremptory manner; absolutely; positively.
Perfecting : of Perfect
Perficient : Making or doing throughly; efficient; effectual.
Perforate : Alt. of Perforated
Perfumed : of Perfume
Pergamentaceous : Like parchment.
Pericardial : Of or pertaining to pericardium; situated around the heart.
Periclasite : A grayish or dark green mineral, consisting essentially of magnesia (magnesium oxide), occurring in granular forms or in isometric crystals.
Peridrome : The space between the columns and the wall of the cella, in a Greek or a Roman temple.
Perigynium : Some unusual appendage about the pistil, as the bottle-shaped body in the sedges, and the bristles or scales in some other genera of the Sedge family, or Cyperaceae.
Perimeter : An instrument for determining the extent and shape of the field of vision.
Period : The termination or completion of a revolution, cycle, series of events, single event, or act; hence, a limit; a bound; an end; a conclusion.
Periodicity : The quality or state of being periodical, or regularly recurrent; as, the periodicity in the vital phenomena of plants.
Peripatetical : Peripatetic.
Periphrastically : With circumlocution.
Perish : To be destroyed; to pass away; to become nothing; to be lost; to die; hence, to wither; to waste away.
Perissological : Redundant or excessive in words.
Perite : Skilled.
Perivitelline : Situated around the vitellus, or between the vitellus and zona pellucida of an ovum.
Perked : of Perk
Permanganate : A salt of permanganic acid.
Permissive : Permitting; granting leave or liberty.
Permutation : Barter; exchange.
Peronate : A term applied to the stipes or stalks of certain fungi which are covered with a woolly substance which at length becomes powdery.
Perpension : Careful consideration; pondering.
Perpetuation : The act of making perpetual, or of preserving from extinction through an endless existence, or for an indefinite period of time; continuance.
Perplexly : Perplexedly.
Persecuted : of Persecute
Persevering : Characterized by perseverance; persistent.
Persistency : The continuance of an effect after the cause which first gave rise to it is removed
Personable : Having a well-formed body, or person; graceful; comely; of good appearance; presentable; as, a personable man or woman.
Personalize : To make personal.
Personified : of Personify
Perspicacity : The state of being perspicacious; acuteness of sight or of intelligence; acute discernment.
Perspire : To emit or evacuate through the pores of the skin; to sweat; to excrete through pores.
Persuasion : A creed or belief; a sect or party adhering to a certain creed or system of opinions; as, of the same persuasion; all persuasions are agreed.
Perterebration : The act of boring through.
Perturbable : Liable to be perturbed or agitated; liable to be disturbed or disquieted.
Perula : One of the scales of a leaf bud.
Perversed : Turned aside.
Pervicacy : Pervicacity.
Pesky : Pestering; vexatious; troublesome. Used also as an intensive.
Pestered : of Pester
Pestilently : In a pestilent manner; mischievously; destructively.
Petaliferous : Bearing petals.
Peter : A common baptismal name for a man. The name of one of the apostles,
Petition : A prayer; a supplication; an imploration; an entreaty; especially, a request of a solemn or formal kind; a prayer to the Supreme Being, or to a person of superior power, rank, or authority; also, a single clause in such a prayer.
Petrescence : The process of changing into stone; petrification.
Petrogale : Any Australian kangaroo of the genus Petrogale, as the rock wallaby (P. penicillata).
Petromastoid : Of or pertaining to the petrous and mastoid parts of the temporal bone, periotic.
Pettifoggery : The practice or arts of a pettifogger; disreputable tricks; quibbles.
Petunse : Alt. of Petuntze
Pewterer : One whose occupation is to make utensils of pewter; a pewtersmith.
Phaenogamic : Same as Phaenogamous.
Phalangeal : Alt. of Phalangal
Phalanstery : An association or community organized on the plan of Fourier. See Fourierism.
Phanerocodonic : Having an umbrella-shaped or bell-shaped body, with a wide, open cavity beneath; -- said of certain jellyfishes.
Phantasmatical : Phantasmal.
Phariseeism : See Pharisaism.
Pharmacy : The art or practice of preparing and preserving drugs, and of compounding and dispensing medicines according to prescriptions of physicians; the occupation of an apothecary or a pharmaceutical chemist.
Pharynx : The part of the alimentary canal between the cavity of the mouth and the esophagus. It has one or two external openings through the nose in the higher vertebrates, and lateral branchial openings in fishes and some amphibias.
Pheasantry : A place for keeping and rearing pheasants.
Phenicopter : A flamingo.
Phenyl : A hydrocarbon radical (C6H5) regarded as the essential residue of benzene, and the basis of an immense number of aromatic derivatives.
Philanthropic : Alt. of Philanthropical
Philippian : Of or pertaining to Philippi, a city of ancient Macedonia.
Philo- : A combining form from Gr. fi`los loving, fond of, attached to; as, philosophy, philotechnic.
Philomela : The nightingale; philomel.
Philosophism : Spurious philosophy; the love or practice of sophistry.
Philtering : of Philter
Phlegm : Sluggishness of temperament; dullness; want of interest; indifference; coldness.
Phlogisticating : of Phlogisticate
Phocenic : Of or pertaining to dolphin oil or porpoise oil; -- said of an acid (called also delphinic acid) subsequently found to be identical with valeric acid.
Phonation : The act or process by which articulate sounds are uttered; the utterance of articulate sounds; articulate speech.
Phonogram : A record of sounds made by a phonograph.
Phonomotor : An instrument in which motion is produced by the vibrations of a sounding body.
Phosphaturia : The excessive discharge of phosphates in the urine.
Phosphorescent : Shining with a phosphoric light; luminous without sensible heat.
Photics : The science of light; -- a general term sometimes employed when optics is restricted to light as a producing vision.
Photogeny : See Photography.
Photolithograph : To produce (a picture, a copy) by the process of photolithography.
Photophone : An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of rays of light.
Phragmocone : The thin chambered shell attached to the anterior end of a belemnite.
Phrasing : The act or method of grouping the notes so as to form distinct musical phrases.
Phrenosin : A nitrogenous body, related to cerebrin, supposed to exist in the brain.
Phthisicky : Having phthisis, or some symptom of it, as difficulty in breathing.
Phycoxanthine : A yellowish coloring matter found in certain algae.
Phyllite : Clay slate; argillaceous schist.
Phyllophorous : Leaf-bearing; producing leaves.
Phyla : of Phylum
Physical : Of or pertaining to physics, or natural philosophy; treating of, or relating to, the causes and connections of natural phenomena; as, physical science; physical laws.
Physics : The science of nature, or of natural objects; that branch of science which treats of the laws and properties of matter, and the forces acting upon it; especially, that department of natural science which treats of the causes (as gravitation, heat, light, magnetism, electricity, etc.) that modify the general properties of bodies; natural philosophy.
Physiolatry : The worship of the powers or agencies of nature; materialism in religion; nature worship.
Physostomi : An order of fishes in which the air bladder is provided with a duct, and the ventral fins, when present, are abdominal. It includes the salmons, herrings, carps, catfishes, and others.
Phytolithologist : One versed in phytolithology; a paleobotanist.
Phytozoa : of Phytozoon
Pianissimo : Very soft; -- a direction to execute a passage as softly as possible. (Abbrev. pp.)
Pica : A service-book. See Pie.
Pice : A small copper coin of the East Indies, worth less than a cent.
Pick : To take up; esp., to gather from here and there; to collect; to bring together; as, to pick rags; -- often with up; as, to pick up a ball or stones; to pick up information.
Picked : Pointed; sharp.
Picket : A pointed pale, used in marking fences.
Picking : Overburned bricks.
Picknick : See Picnic.
Picra : The powder of aloes with canella, formerly officinal, employed as a cathartic.
Picture : An image or resemblance; a representation, either to the eye or to the mind; that which, by its likeness, brings vividly to mind some other thing; as, a child is the picture of his father; the man is the picture of grief.
Piddle : To urinate; -- child's word.
Piece : An individual; -- applied to a person as being of a certain nature or quality; often, but not always, used slightingly or in contempt.
Pied : imp. & p. p. of Pi, or Pie, v.
Pierce : To thrust into, penetrate, or transfix, with a pointed instrument.
Pietism : Strict devotion; also, affectation of devotion.
Pig : To huddle or lie together like pigs, in one bed.
Piggish : Relating to, or like, a pig; greedy.
Pignora : of Pignus
Pike : A pick.
Pilau : See Pillau.
Piling : of Pile
Pileus : The expanded upper portion of many of the fungi. See Mushroom.
Pilgrimize : To wander as a pilgrim; to go on a pilgrimage.
Pillage : The act of pillaging; robbery.
Pilleries : of Pillery
Pill-willet : The willet.
Pilotism : Alt. of Pilotry
Pimp : To procure women for the gratification of others' lusts; to pander.
Pin : A clothespin.
Pinaces : of Pinax
Pinchcock : A clamp on a flexible pipe to regulate the flow of a fluid through the pipe.
Pined : of Pine
Pinery : A pine forest; a grove of pines.
Pinguid : Fat; unctuous; greasy.
Pinioned : Having wings or pinions.
Pink-eyed : Having small eyes.
Pinnace : A man-of-war's boat.
Pinner : A pin maker.
Pinocle : See Penuchle.
Pinule : One of the sights of an astrolabe.
Pip : A seed, as of an apple or orange.
Pipe : To play on a pipe, fife, flute, or other tubular wind instrument of music.
Pipemouth : Any fish of the genus Fistularia; -- called also tobacco pipefish. See Fistularia.
Piping : Simmering; boiling; sizzling; hissing; -- from the sound of boiling fluids.
Pique : A cotton fabric, figured in the loom, -- used as a dress goods for women and children, and for vestings, etc.
Pirai : Same as Piraya.
Pirouette : A whirling or turning on the toes in dancing.
Pisciculturist : One who breeds fish.
Pist : See Piste.
Pistoling : of Pistol
Pit : A depression or thin spot in the wall of a duct.
Pitch : To fix or set the tone of; as, to pitch a tune.
Pitcher : One who pitches anything, as hay, quoits, a ball, etc.; specifically (Baseball), the player who delivers the ball to the batsman.
Piteous : Evincing pity, compassion, or sympathy; compassionate; tender.
Pithy : Having nervous energy; forceful; cogent.
Pitter : A contrivance for removing the pits from peaches, plums, and other stone fruit.
Pivot : A fixed pin or short axis, on the end of which a wheel or other body turns.
Placard : Permission given by authority; a license; as, to give a placard to do something.
Place : Reception; effect; -- implying the making room for.
Placenta : The part of a pistil or fruit to which the ovules or seeds are attached.
Placit : A decree or determination; a dictum.
Placoidian : One of the placoids.
Plagihedral : Having an oblique spiral arrangement of planes, as levogyrate and dextrogyrate crystals.
Plagueless : Free from plagues or the plague.
Plain : Not luxurious; not highly seasoned; simple; as, plain food.
Plainsman : One who lives in the plains.
Plaited : Folded; doubled over; braided; figuratively, involved; intricate; artful.
Plancher : A floor of wood; also, a plank.
Planer : A wooden block used for forcing down the type in a form, and making the surface even.
Plangency : The quality or state of being plangent; a beating sound.
Planispheric : Of or pertaining to a planisphere.
Plano-horizontal : Having a level horizontal surface or position.
Plant : To introduce and establish the principles or seeds of; as, to plant Christianity among the heathen.
Plantership : The occupation or position of a planter, or the management of a plantation, as in the United States or the West Indies.
Plashed : of Plash
Plasma : A mixture of starch and glycerin, used as a substitute for ointments.
Plastering : of Plaster
Plasticity : Plastic force.
Plat : Plain; flat; level.
Plate : A horizontal timber laid upon a wall, or upon corbels projecting from a wall, and supporting the ends of other timbers; also used specifically of the roof plate which supports the ends of the roof trusses or, in simple work, the feet of the rafters.
Platen : Hence, an analogous part of a typewriter, on which the paper rests to receive an impression.
Platinic : Of, pertaining to, or containing, platinum; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a higher valence, as contrasted with the platinous compounds; as, platinic chloride (PtCl4).
Platitudinarian : One addicted to uttering platitudes, or stale and insipid truisms.
Platoon : Now, in the United States service, half of a company.
Platyptera : A division of Pseudoneuroptera including the species which have four broad, flat wings, as the termites, or white-ants, and the stone flies (Perla).
Played : of Play
Play : Action; use; employment; exercise; practice; as, fair play; sword play; a play of wit.
Playgoing : Frequenting playhouses; as, the playgoing public.
Pleaching : of Pleach
Pleasant : Pleasing; grateful to the mind or to the senses; agreeable; as, a pleasant journey; pleasant weather.
Pleasurable : Capable of affording pleasure or satisfaction; gratifying; abounding in pleasantness or pleasantry.
Plebeiance : Plebeianism.
Plectra : of Plectrum
Pledger : One who pledges.
Plenarty : The state of a benefice when occupied.
Plenitudinary : Having plenitude; full; complete; thorough.
Pleomorphous : Having the property of pleomorphism.
Plesiosaurus : A genus of large extinct marine reptiles, having a very long neck, a small head, and paddles for swimming. It lived in the Mesozoic age.
Pleural : Of or pertaining to the pleura or pleurae, or to the sides of the thorax.
Pleurocentrum : One of the lateral elements in the centra of the vertebrae in some fossil batrachians.
Pleurothotonus : A species of tetanus, in which the body is curved laterally.
Pliant : Favorable to pliancy.
Plight : To pledge; to give as a pledge for the performance of some act; as, to plight faith, honor, word; -- never applied to property or goods.
Plonge : To cleanse, as open drains which are entered by the tide, by stirring up the sediment when the tide ebbs.
Plotter : One who plots or schemes; a contriver; a conspirator; a schemer.
Plow : Alt. of Plough
Plougland : the quantity of land allotted for the work of one plow; a hide.
Pluck : To strip of, or as of, feathers; as, to pluck a fowl.
Plug : A high, tapering silk hat.
Plumbed : of Plumb
Plumbiferous : Producing or containing lead.
Plumicorn : An ear tuft of feathers, as in the horned owls.
Plump : To give a plumper. See Plumper, 2.
Plumularlae : of Plumularia
Plunging : of Plunge
Plural : The plural number; that form of a word which expresses or denotes more than one; a word in the plural form.
Plurifoliolate : Having several or many leaflets.
Plutocrat : One whose wealth gives him power or influence; one of the plutocracy.
Plied : of Ply
Pneumatical : Moved or worked by pressure or flow of air; as, a pneumatic instrument; a pneumatic engine.
Pneumogastric : Of or pertaining to the lungs and the stomach.
Pneumothorax : A condition in which air or other gas is present in the cavity of the chest; -- called also pneumatothorax.
Poak : Alt. of Poake
Pocketfuls : of Pocketful
Pod : A bag; a pouch.
Podetiums : of Podetium
Podophthalmia : The stalk-eyed Crustacea, -- an order of Crustacea having the eyes supported on movable stalks. It includes the crabs, lobsters, and prawns. Called also Podophthalmata, and Decapoda.
Podurid : Pertaining to the poduras.
Poetastry : The works of a poetaster.
Poicile : Alt. of Poecile
Point : Anything which tapers to a sharp, well-defined termination. Specifically: A small promontory or cape; a tract of land extending into the water beyond the common shore line.
Point : A fielder who is stationed on the off side, about twelve or fifteen yards from, and a little in advance of, the batsman.
Pointal : The pistil of a plant.
Pointer : The two stars (Merak and Dubhe) in the Great Bear, the line between which points nearly in the direction of the north star.
Poising : of Poise
Poisonsome : Poisonous.[Obs.] Holland.
Poker : A poking-stick.
Polar : Pertaining to, reckoned from, or having a common radiating point; as, polar coordinates.
Polarize : To communicate polarity to.
Poleax : Alt. of Poleaxe
Poler : One who poles.
Policemen : of Policeman
Polish : Of or pertaining to Poland or its inhabitants.
Politely : In a polished manner; so as to be smooth or glossy.
Politicist : A political writer.
Poll : The place where the votes are cast or recorded; as, to go to the polls.
Pollard : A fish, the chub.
Pollicate : Having a curved projection or spine on the inner side of a leg joint; -- said of insects.
Pollute : To violate sexually; to debauch; to dishonor.
Polron : See Pauldron.
Polyactinia : An old name for those Anthozoa which, like the actinias, have numerous simple tentacles.
Polycarpellary : Composed of several or numerous carpels; -- said of such fruits as the orange.
Polychromous : Of or pertaining to polychromy; many-colored; polychromatic.
Polyedron : See Polyhedron.
Polygamy : The state or habit of having more than one mate.
Polygon : A plane figure having many angles, and consequently many sides; esp., one whose perimeter consists of more than four sides; any figure having many angles.
Polygyn : A plant of the order Polygynia.
Polymathic : Pertaining to polymathy; acquainted with many branches of learning.
Polymorphosis : The assumption of several structural forms without a corresponding difference in function; -- said of sponges, etc.
Polyommatous : Having many eyes.
Polyphagy : The practice or faculty of subsisting on many kinds of food.
Polypidom : A coral, or corallum; also, one of the coral-like structure made by bryozoans and hydroids.
Polypous : Of the nature of a polypus; having many feet or roots, like the polypus; affected with polypus.
Polyspermy : Fullness of sperm, or seed; the passage of more than one spermatozoon into the vitellus in the impregnation of the ovum.
Polsyntheticism : Polysynthesis.
Polytyped : of Polytype
Pomade : Cider.
Pomfret : One of two or more species of marine food fishes of the genus Stromateus (S. niger, S. argenteus) native of Southern Europe and Asia.
Pomologist : One versed in pomology; one who culticvates fruit trees.
Pompon : A tuft or ball of wool, or the like, sometimes worn by soldiers on the front of the hat, instead of a feather.
Ponderable : Capable of being weighed; having appreciable weight.
Pongee : A fabric of undyed silk from India and China.
Pontific : Of or pertaining to the pope; papal.
Pontoon : A low, flat vessel, resembling a barge, furnished with cranes, capstans, and other machinery, used in careening ships, raising weights, drawing piles, etc., chiefly in the Mediterranean; a lighter.
Pool : A combination of persons contributing money to be used for the purpose of increasing or depressing the market price of stocks, grain, or other commodities; also, the aggregate of the sums so contributed; as, the pool took all the wheat offered below the limit; he put $10,000 into the pool.
Pooped : Struck on the poop.
Poorly : With little or no success; indifferently; with little profit or advantage; as, to do poorly in business.
Pope : The bishop of Rome, the head of the Roman Catholic Church. See Note under Cardinal.
Popliteal : Of or pertaining to the ham; in the region of the ham, or behind the knee joint; as, the popliteal space.
Popular : Suitable to common people; easy to be comprehended; not abstruse; familiar; plain.
Populated : of Populate
Porcelaneous : Alt. of Porcellaneous
Porgy : The sailor's choice, or pinfish.
Porket : A young hog; a pig.
Porphyrize : To cause to resemble porphyry; to make spotted in composition, like porphyry.
Port : A passageway in a machine, through which a fluid, as steam, water, etc., may pass, as from a valve to the interior of the cylinder of a steam engine; an opening in a valve seat, or valve face.
Portage : The price of carriage; porterage.
Portcrayon : A metallic handle with a clasp for holding a crayon.
Porter : A man who has charge of a door or gate; a doorkeeper; one who waits at the door to receive messages.
Portico : A colonnade or covered ambulatory, especially in classical styles of architecture; usually, a colonnade at the entrance of a building.
Portise : See Portass.
Portrait : Hence, any graphic or vivid delineation or description of a person; as, a portrait in words.
Portuguese : A native or inhabitant of Portugal; people of Portugal.
Posit : To dispose or set firmly or fixedly; to place or dispose in relation to other objects.
Positive : That which settles by absolute appointment.
Possessed : of Possess
Possessor : One who possesses; one who occupies, holds, owns, or controls; one who has actual participation or enjoyment, generally of that which is desirable; a proprietor.
Post : The piece of ground to which a sentinel's walk is limited.
Postable : Capable of being carried by, or as by, post.
Postdate : To affix a date to after the event.
Posterior : On the side next the axis of inflorescence; -- said of an axillary flower.
Postfrontal : Situated behind the frontal bone or the frontal region of the skull; -- applied especially to a bone back of and below the frontal in many animals.
Postil : Originally, an explanatory note in the margin of the Bible, so called because written after the text; hence, a marginal note; a comment.
Postliminium : Alt. of Postliminy
Postnatal : After birth; subsequent to birth; as, postnatal infanticide; postnatal diseases.
Postponence : The act of postponing, in sense 2.
Postscutellum : The hindermost dorsal piece of a thoracic somite of an insect; the plate behind the scutellum.
Postulatum : A postulate.
Pot : A metal or earthenware extension of a flue above the top of a chimney; a chimney pot.
Potamian : A river tortoise; one of a group of tortoises (Potamites, or Trionychoidea) having a soft shell, webbed feet, and a sharp beak. See Trionyx.
Potato : The sweet potato (see below).
Potent : One of the furs; a surface composed of patches which are supposed to represent crutch heads; they are always alternately argent and azure, unless otherwise specially mentioned.
Potestate : A chief ruler; a potentate. [Obs.] Wyclif.
Potluck : Whatever may chance to be in the pot, or may be provided for a meal.
Pottain : Old pot metal.
Pottle : A vessel or small basket for holding fruit.
Pouch : To pout.
Poultice : A soft composition, as of bread, bran, or a mucilaginous substance, to be applied to sores, inflamed parts of the body, etc.; a cataplasm.
Pouncing : The art or practice of transferring a design by means of pounce.
Poundage : To collect, as poundage; to assess, or rate, by poundage.
Pour : To cause to flow in a stream, as a liquid or anything flowing like a liquid, either out of a vessel or into it; as, to pour water from a pail; to pour wine into a decanter; to pour oil upon the waters; to pour out sand or dust.
Pout : To shoot pouts.
Powder : To reduce to fine particles; to pound, grind, or rub into a powder; to comminute; to pulverize; to triturate.
Power : Ability, regarded as put forth or exerted; strength, force, or energy in action; as, the power of steam in moving an engine; the power of truth, or of argument, in producing conviction; the power of enthusiasm.
Powldron : Same as Pauldron.
Poyou : A South American armadillo (Dasypus sexcinctus). Called also sixbanded armadillo.
Practicalize : To render practical.
Practice : To try artifices or stratagems.
Praecipe : A paper containing the particulars of a writ, lodged in the office out of which the writ is to be issued.
Praemunitory : See Premunitory.
Pragmatical : Of or pertaining to business or to affairs; of the nature of business; practical; material; businesslike in habit or manner.
Praise : Commendation for worth; approval expressed; honor rendered because of excellence or worth; laudation; approbation.
Prance : To ride on a prancing horse; to ride in an ostentatious manner.
Prating : of Prate
Praxinoscope : An instrument, similar to the phenakistoscope, for presenting to view, or projecting upon a screen, images the natural motions of real objects.
Preace : Press.
Preacquaintance : Previous acquaintance or knowledge.
Preannounce : To announce beforehand.
Prebendate : To invest with the office of prebendary; to present to a prebend.
Precede : To go before in order of time; to occur first with relation to anything.
Precentor : A leader of a choir; a directing singer.
Precinct : The limit or exterior line encompassing a place; a boundary; a confine; limit of jurisdiction or authority; -- often in the plural; as, the precincts of a state.
Precipitantly : With rash or foolish haste; in headlong manner.
Precipitator : One who precipitates, or urges on with vehemence or rashness.
Precoce : Precocious.
Preconceiving : of Preconceive
Preconsigned : of Preconsign
Precursory : Preceding as a precursor or harbinger; indicating something to follow; as, precursory symptoms of a fever.
Predefine : To define beforehand.
Predestining : of Predestine
Predicament : See Category.
Predict : A prediction.
Predispose : To make fit or susceptible beforehand; to give a tendency to; as, debility predisposes the body to disease.
Preeminence : The quality or state of being preeminent; superiority in prominence or in excellence; distinction above others in quality, rank, etc.; rarely, in a bad sense, superiority or notoriety in evil; as, preeminence in honor.
Preengaging : of Preengage
Preexistimation : Previous esteem or estimation.
Preferred : of Prefer
Prefiguration : The act of prefiguring, or the state of being prefigured.
Prefrontal : Situated in front of the frontal bone, or the frontal region of the skull; ectethmoid, as a certain bone in the nasal capsule of many animals, and certain scales of reptiles and fishes.
Prehallux : An extra first toe, or rudiment of a toe, on the preaxial side of the hallux.
Prejudical : Of or pertaining to the determination of some matter not previously decided; as, a prejudical inquiry or action at law.
Prejudice : To obstruct or injure by prejudices, or by previous bias of the mind; hence, generally, to hurt; to damage; to injure; to impair; as, to prejudice a good cause.
Prelatized : of Prelatize
Prelimit : To limit previously.
Premaxilla : A bone on either side of the middle line between the nose and mouth, forming the anterior part of each half of the upper jawbone; the intermaxilla. In man the premaxillae become united and form the incisor part of the maxillary bone.
Premious : Rich in gifts.
Premonished : of Premonish
Prenatal : Being or happening before birth.
Preoccupate : To prepossess; to prejudice.
Preordinate : Preordained.
Prepare : To make all things ready; to put things in order; as, to prepare for a hostile invasion.
Preponderance : Alt. of Preponderancy
Prepossessed : of Prepossess
Preraphaelism : Alt. of Preraphaelitism
Presage : To have a presentiment of; to feel beforehand; to foreknow.
Presbyterial : Presbyterian.
Prescind : To cut off; to abstract.
Prescriptive : Consisting in, or acquired by, immemorial or long-continued use and enjoyment; as, a prescriptive right of title; pleading the continuance and authority of long custom.
Present : "Present letters or instrument, as a deed of conveyance, a lease, letter of attorney, or other writing; as in the phrase, "" Know all men by these presents,"" that is, by the writing itself, "" per has literas praesentes; "" -- in this sense, rarely used in the singular."
Presentable : Admitting of the presentation of a clergiman; as, a church presentable.
Presention : See Presension.
Preserving : of Preserve
Presidency : One of the three great divisions of British India, the Bengal, Madras, and Bombay Presidencies, each of which had a council of which its governor was president.
Presphenoid : Situated in front of the sphenoid bone; of or pertaining to the anterior part of the sphenoid bone (i. e., the presphenoid bone).
Press : To urge with vehemence or importunity; to exert a strong or compelling influence; as, an argument presses upon the judgment.
Pressman : One who presses clothes; as, a tailor's pressman.
Prestation : A payment of money; a toll or duty; also, the rendering of a service.
Presumable : Such as may be presumed or supposed to be true; that seems entitled to belief without direct evidence.
Presumptuous : Done with hold design, rash confidence, or in violation of known duty; willful.
Pretend : To intend; to design; to plot; to attempt.
Pretension : The act of pretending, or laying claim; the act of asserting right or title.
Preterlapsed : Past; as, preterlapsed ages.
Pretor : A civil officer or magistrate among the ancient Romans.
Pretypified : of Pretypify
Prevaricate : To shift or turn from one side to the other, from the direct course, or from truth; to speak with equivocation; to shuffle; to quibble; as, he prevaricates in his statement.
Prevent : To go before; to precede; hence, to go before as a guide; to direct.
Prevertebral : Situated immediately in front, or on the ventral side, of the vertebral column; prespinal.
Prezygapophyses : of Prezygapophysis
Prick : That which pricks, penetrates, or punctures; a sharp and slender thing; a pointed instrument; a goad; a spur, etc.; a point; a skewer.
Prick : To run a middle seam through, as the cloth of a sail.
Pricking-up : The first coating of plaster in work of three coats upon laths. Its surface is scratched once to form a better key for the next coat. In the United States called scratch coat.
Pride : Proud or disdainful behavior or treatment; insolence or arrogance of demeanor; haughty bearing and conduct; insolent exultation; disdain.
Priest : One who is authorized to consecrate the host and to say Mass; but especially, one of the lowest order possessing this power.
Prig : To haggle about the price of a commodity; to bargain hard.
Primming : of Prim
Primary : That which stands first in order, rank, or importance; a chief matter.
Prime : The first of the chief guards.
Primer : First; original; primary.
Primitias : of Primitia
Primogeniture : The exclusive right of inheritance which belongs to the eldest son. Thus in England the right of inheriting the estate of the father belongs to the eldest son, and in the royal family the eldest son of the sovereign is entitled to the throne by primogeniture. In exceptional cases, among the female children, the crown descends by right of primogeniture to the eldest daughter only and her issue.
Prince : The son of a king or emperor, or the issue of a royal family; as, princes of the blood.
Princewood : The wood of two small tropical American trees (Hamelia ventricosa, and Cordia gerascanthoides). It is brownish, veined with lighter color.
Principally : In a principal manner; primarily; above all; chiefly; mainly.
Prinking : of Prink
Print : A printed publication, more especially a newspaper or other periodical.
Priory : A religious house presided over by a prior or prioress; -- sometimes an offshoot of, an subordinate to, an abbey, and called also cell, and obedience. See Cell, 2.
Prison : A place where persons are confined, or restrained of personal liberty; hence, a place or state o/ confinement, restraint, or safe custody.
Privacy : A private matter; a secret.
Privateersmen : of Privateersman
Privileged : of Privilege
Prize : That which is taken from another; something captured; a thing seized by force, stratagem, or superior power.
Pro : For, on, or in behalf of, the affirmative side; -- in contrast with con.
Probang : A slender elastic rod, as of whalebone, with a sponge on the end, for removing obstructions from the esophagus, etc.
Probatory : Serving for trial; probationary.
Proboscidian : Pertaining to the Proboscidea.
Proceeded : of Proceed
Proception : Preoccupation.
Processional : A hymn, or other selection, sung during a church procession; as, the processional was the 202d hymn.
Proclaim : To outlaw by public proclamation.
Proconsulary : Under the government of a proconsul; as, a proconsular province.
Procris : Any species of small moths of the genus Procris. The larvae of some species injure the grapevine by feeding in groups upon the leaves.
Proctotomy : An incision into the rectum, as for the division of a stricture.
Procure : To bring into possession; to cause to accrue to, or to come into possession of; to acquire or provide for one's self or for another; to gain; to get; to obtain by any means, as by purchase or loan.
Prodd : A crossbow. See Prod, 3.
Proditorious : Treacherous; perfidious; traitorous.
Producement : Production.
Productive : Producing, or able to produce, in large measure; fertile; profitable.
Profaning : of Profane
Profession : The act of professing or claiming; open declaration; public avowal or acknowledgment; as, professions of friendship; a profession of faith.
Proffered : of Proffer
Profile : To shape the outline of an object by passing a cutter around it.
Profligation : Defeat; rout; overthrow.
Profuseness : Extravagance; profusion.
Proglottides : of Proglottis
Prognosticator : One who prognosticates; a foreknower or foreteller of a future course or event by present signs.
Progression : The act of moving forward; a proceeding in a course; motion onward.
Prohibition : Specifically, the forbidding by law of the sale of alcoholic liquors as beverages.
Projectile : A part of mechanics which treats of the motion, range, time of flight, etc., of bodies thrown or driven through the air by an impelling force.
Prolata : of Prolatum
Proletarian : A proletary.
Prolification : The generation of young.
Prologue : "The preface or introduction to a discourse, poem, or performance; as, the prologue of Chaucer's ""Canterbury Tales;"" esp., a discourse or poem spoken before a dramatic performance"
Promanation : The act of flowing forth; emanation; efflux.
Prominent : Hence; Distinctly manifest; likely to attract attention from its size or position; conspicuous; as, a prominent feature of the face; a prominent building.
Promiser : One who promises.
Promoter : One who excites; as, a promoter of sedition.
Promptness : Promptitude; readiness; quickness of decision or action.
Pronation : The position of the limb resulting from the act of pronation. Opposed to supination.
Prongbuck : The pronghorn.
Pronounce : To make declaration; to utter on opinion; to speak with confidence.
Proof : Any effort, process, or operation designed to establish or discover a fact or truth; an act of testing; a test; a trial.
Prop : To support, or prevent from falling, by placing something under or against; as, to prop up a fence or an old building; (Fig.) to sustain; to maintain; as, to prop a declining state.
Propagation : The act of propagating; continuance or multiplication of the kind by generation or successive production; as, the propagation of animals or plants.
Propene : Same as Propylene.
Properispomenon : A word which has the circumflex accent on the penult.
Prophecy : Public interpretation of Scripture; preaching; exhortation or instruction.
Prophragmata : of Prophragma
Propiolic : Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also propargylic acid) of the acetylene or tetrolic series, analogous to propionic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Proplastic : Forming a mold.
Proportion : The rule of three, in arithmetic, in which the three given terms, together with the one sought, are proportional.
Proportionateness : The quality or state of being proportionate.
Proposition : A statement in terms of a truth to be demonstrated, or of an operation to be performed.
Propriety : Individual right to hold property; ownership by personal title; property.
Propylene : A colorless gaseous hydrocarbon (C3H6) of the ethylene series, having a garlic odor. It occurs in coal gas, and is produced artificially in various ways. Called also propene.
Proroguing : of Prorogue
Proscribe : To denounce and condemn; to interdict; to prohibit; as, the Puritans proscribed theaters.
Prosecutable : Capable of being prosecuted; liable to prosecution.
Proselytism : Conversion to a religion, system, or party.
Prosing : Writing prose; speaking or writing in a tedious or prosy manner.
Prosopocephala : Same as Scaphopoda.
Prospectively : In a prospective manner.
Prosternum : The ventral plate of the prothorax of an insect.
Prostrate : Trailing on the ground; procumbent.
Protandric : Having male sexual organs while young, and female organs later in life.
Protective : Affording protection; sheltering; defensive.
Proteinous : Proteinaceuos.
Protest : To make a solemn declaration (often a written one) expressive of opposition; -- with against; as, he protest against your votes.
Proteus : A sea god in the service of Neptune who assumed different shapes at will. Hence, one who easily changes his appearance or principles.
Prothoracic : Of or pertaining to the prothorax.
Protocol : An agreement of diplomatists indicating the results reached by them at a particular stage of a negotiation.
Protoplasm : "The viscid and more or less granular material of vegetable and animal cells, possessed of vital properties by which the processes of nutrition, secretion, and growth go forward; the so-called "" physical basis of life;"" the original cell substance, cytoplasm, cytoblastema, bioplasm sarcode, etc."
Protovertebra : One of the primitive masses, or segments, into which the mesoblast of the vertebrate embryo breaks up on either side of the anterior part of the notochord; a mesoblastic, or protovertebral, somite. See Illust. of Ectoderm.
Protract : Tedious continuance or delay.
Protrusile : Capable of being protruded or thrust out; protractile; protrusive.
Proudling : A proud or haughty person.
Provect : Carried forward; advanced.
Proverb : A familiar illustration; a subject of contemptuous reference.
Provide : To procure supplies or means in advance; to take measures beforehand in view of an expected or a possible future need, especially a danger or an evil; -- followed by against or for; as, to provide against the inclemency of the weather; to provide for the education of a child.
Provincial : Exhibiting the ways or manners of a province; characteristic of the inhabitants of a province; not cosmopolitan; countrified; not polished; rude; hence, narrow; illiberal.
Provisioned : of Provision
Provocation : An appeal to a court. [A Latinism]
Prowess : Distinguished bravery; valor; especially, military bravery and skill; gallantry; intrepidity; fearlessness.
Proximious : Proximate.
Prudentialist : One who is governed by, or acts from, prudential motives.
Prunella : Thrush.
Prussic : designating the acid now called hydrocyanic acid, but formerly called prussic acid, because Prussian blue is derived from it or its compounds. See Hydrocyanic.
Psalmist : A clerk, precentor, singer, or leader of music, in the church.
Psammite : A species of micaceous sandstone.
Pseudo-china : The false china root, a plant of the genus Smilax (S. Pseudo-china), found in America.
Pseudo-metallic : Falsely or imperfectly metallic; -- said of a kind of luster, as in minerals.
Pseudopodia : of Pseudopodium
Pseudotinea : The bee moth, or wax moth (Galleria).
Psittaci : The order of birds which comprises the parrots.
Psychical : Of or pertaining to the mind, or its functions and diseases; mental; -- contrasted with physical.
Psychophysics : The science of the connection between nerve action and consciousness; the science which treats of the relations of the psychical and physical in their conjoint operation in man; the doctrine of the relation of function or dependence between body and soul.
Pterobranchia : An order of marine Bryozoa, having a bilobed lophophore and an axial cord. The genus Rhabdopleura is the type. Called also Podostomata. See Rhabdopleura.
Pterygia : of Pterygium
Ptisan : An aqueous medicine, containing little, if any, medicinal agent; a tea or tisane.
Pubescency : Pubescence.
Publicly : With exposure to popular view or notice; without concealment; openly; as, property publicly offered for sale; an opinion publicly avowed; a declaration publicly made.
Pucelage : Virginity.
Puddening : A quantity of rope-yarn, or the like, placed, as a fender, on the bow of a boat.
Puddle : To subject to the process of puddling, as iron, so as to convert it from the condition of cast iron to that of wrought iron.
Puing : of Pue
Puff : An exaggerated or empty expression of praise, especially one in a public journal.
Puffery : The act of puffing; bestowment of extravagant commendation.
Pug : An intimate; a crony; a dear one.
Puisne : Later in age, time, etc.; subsequent.
Pulchritude : Attractive moral excellence; moral beauty.
Pull : To hold back, and so prevent from winning; as, the favorite was pulled.
Pulley : A wheel with a broad rim, or grooved rim, for transmitting power from, or imparting power to, the different parts of machinery, or for changing the direction of motion, by means of a belt, cord, rope, or chain.
Pulmonate : One of the Pulmonata.
Pulpit : The whole body of the clergy; preachers as a class; also, preaching.
Pulsation : A stroke or impulse by which some medium is affected, as in the propagation of sounds.
Pultaceous : Macerated; softened; nearly fluid.
Pulvillio : Alt. of Pulvillo
Pumiciform : Resembling, or having the structure of, pumice.
Pun : A play on words which have the same sound but different meanings; an expression in which two different applications of a word present an odd or ludicrous idea; a kind of quibble or equivocation.
Puncheon : A cask containing, sometimes 84, sometimes 120, gallons.
Punctual : Appearing or done at, or adhering exactly to, a regular or an appointed time; precise; prompt; as, a punctual man; a punctual payment.
Puncture : To pierce with a small, pointed instrument, or the like; to prick; to make a puncture in; as, to puncture the skin.
Punicial : Of a bright red or purple color.
Punkin : A pumpkin.
Puoy : Same as Poy, n., 3.
Pupilage : The state of being a pupil.
Puppy : A name of contemptuous reproach for a conceited and impertinent person.
Purchased : of Purchase
Purdah : A curtain or screen; also, a cotton fabric in blue and white stripes, used for curtains.
Purgament : A cathartic; a purgative.
Purge : To become pure, as by clarification.
Purify : Hence, in figurative uses: (a) To free from guilt or moral defilement; as, to purify the heart.
Puritanize : To agree with, or teach, the doctrines of Puritans; to conform to the practice of Puritans.
Purlieu : Hence, the outer portion of any place; an adjacent district; environs; neighborhood.
Purple : Imperial; regal; -- so called from the color having been an emblem of imperial authority.
Purpose : To propose, as an aim, to one's self; to determine upon, as some end or object to be accomplished; to intend; to design; to resolve; -- often followed by an infinitive or dependent clause.
Purpuric : Pertaining to or designating, a nitrogenous acid contained in uric acid. It is not known in the pure state, but forms well-known purple-red compounds (as murexide), whence its name.
Pursefuls : of Purseful
Pursued : of Pursue
Pursy : Fat and short-breathed; fat, short, and thick; swelled with pampering; as, pursy insolence.
Purview : "The body of a statute, or that part which begins with "" Be it enacted, "" as distinguished from the preamble."
Push : A thrust with a pointed instrument, or with the end of a thing.
Pustulant : A medicine that produces pustules, as croton oil.
Put : "To throw or cast with a pushing motion ""overhand,"" the hand being raised from the shoulder; a practice in athletics; as, to put the shot or weight."
Putlog : One of the short pieces of timber on which the planks forming the floor of a scaffold are laid, -- one end resting on the ledger of the scaffold, and the other in a hole left in the wall temporarily for the purpose.
Putrid : Tending to decomposition or decay; decomposed; rotten; -- said of animal or vegetable matter; as, putrid flesh. See Putrefaction.
Puttock : The marsh harrier.
Puzzledom : The domain of puzzles; puzzles, collectively.
Pye : See 2d Pie (b).
Pygropodes : A division of swimming birds which includes the grebes, divers, auks, etc., in which the legs are placed far back.
Pyocyanin : A blue coloring matter found in the pus from old sores, supposed to be formed through the agency of a species of bacterium (Bacillus pyocyaneus).
Pyramidoid : A solid resembling a pyramid; -- called also pyramoid.
Pyrexical : Of or pertaining to fever; feverish.
Pyro- : Alt. of Pyr-
Pyrogallol : A phenol metameric with phloroglucin, obtained by the distillation of gallic acid as a poisonous white crystalline substance having acid properties, and hence called also pyrogallic acid. It is a strong reducer, and is used as a developer in photography and in the production of certain dyes.
Pyromancy : Divination by means of fire.
Pyrophorus : Any one of several substances or mixtures which phosphoresce or ignite spontaneously on exposure to air, as a heated mixture of alum, potash, and charcoal, or a mixture of charcoal and finely divided lead.
Pyrothonide : A kind of empyreumatic oil produced by the combustion of textures of hemp, linen, or cotton in a copper vessel, -- formerly used as a remedial agent.
Pyrrhonism : Skepticism; universal doubt.
Pythiad : The period intervening between one celebration of the Pythian games and the next.
Pyxidium : The theca of mosses.
Quackeries : of Quackery
Quadragesimal : Belonging to Lent; used in Lent; Lenten.
Quadrate : Squared; suited; correspondent.
Quadrature : The integral used in obtaining the area bounded by a curve; hence, the definite integral of the product of any function of one variable into the differential of that variable.
Quadridentate : Having four teeth; as, a quadridentate leaf.
Quadrille : The appropriate music for a quadrille.
Quadri-syllabical : Having four syllables; of or pertaining to quadrisyllables; as, a quadrisyllabic word.
Quadrupled : of Quadruple
Quagga : A South African wild ass (Equus, / Hippotigris, quagga). The upper parts are reddish brown, becoming paler behind and behind and beneath, with dark stripes on the face, neck, and fore part of the body.
Quaint : Curious and fanciful; affected; odd; whimsical; antique; archaic; singular; unusual; as, quaint architecture; a quaint expression.
Quakerlike : Like a Quaker.
Qualifying : of Qualify
Qualmish : Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea or sickly languor; inclined to vomit.
Quantity : The relative duration of a tone.
Quarrel : Any small square or quadrangular member
Quarreling : Engaged in a quarrel; apt or disposed to quarrel; as, quarreling factions; a quarreling mood.
Quart : A measure of capacity, both in dry and in liquid measure; the fourth part of a gallon; the eighth part of a peck; two pints.
Quarter : The after-part of a vessel's side, generally corresponding in extent with the quarter-deck; also, the part of the yardarm outside of the slings.
Quarterage : A quarterly allowance.
Quartern : A loaf of bread weighing about four pounds; -- called also quartern loaf.
Quartridge : Quarterage.
Quasimodo : The first Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.
Quaternion : To divide into quaternions, files, or companies.
Quaver : An eighth note. See Eighth.
Quech : Alt. of Queck
Oueen-post : One of two suspending posts in a roof truss, or other framed truss of similar form. See King-post.
Quell : To overpower; to subdue; to put down.
Quercite : A white crystalline substance, C6H7(OH)5, found in acorns, the fruit of the oak (Quercus). It has a sweet taste, and is regarded as a pentacid alcohol.
Querulential : Querulous.
Quest : Inquest; jury of inquest.
Questionable : Admitting of being questioned; inviting, or seeming to invite, inquiry.
Questuary : One employed to collect profits.
Quick : Speedy; hasty; swift; not slow; as, be quick.
Quickening : The first motion of the fetus in the womb felt by the mother, occurring usually about the middle of the term of pregnancy. It has been popularly supposed to be due to the fetus becoming possessed of independent life.
Quick-witted : Having ready wit
Quidnunc : One who is curious to know everything that passes; one who knows, or pretends to know, all that is going on.
Quiet : To stop motion in; to still; to reduce to a state of rest, or of silence.
Quill : The pen of a squid. See Pen.
Quilting : of Quilt
Quincuncial : Having the leaves of a pentamerous calyx or corolla so imbricated that two are exterior, two are interior, and the other has one edge exterior and one interior; as, quincuncial aestivation.
Quinine : An alkaloid extracted from the bark of several species of cinchona (esp. Cinchona Calisaya) as a bitter white crystalline substance, C20H24N2O2. Hence, by extension (Med.), any of the salts of this alkaloid, as the acetate, chloride, sulphate, etc., employed as a febrifuge or antiperiodic. Called also quinia, quinina, etc.
Quinquangular : Having five angles or corners.
Quinquepartite : Consisting of five parts.
Quintessence : The fifth or last and highest essence or power in a natural body. See Ferment oils, under Ferment.
Quinze : A game at cards in which the object is to make fifteen points.
Quirk : An irregular air; as, light quirks of music.
Quit : To have done with; to cease from; to stop; hence, to depart from; to leave; to forsake; as, to quit work; to quit the place; to quit jesting.
Quitter : One who quits.
Quiz : An odd or absurd fellow.
Quoifffure : See Coiffure.
Quorum : Such a number of the officers or members of any body as is competent by law or constitution to transact business; as, a quorum of the House of Representatives; a constitutional quorum was not present.
Quotidian : Occurring or returning daily; as, a quotidian fever.
Rabbeting : of Rabbet
Rabble : An iron bar, with the end bent, used in stirring or skimming molten iron in the process of puddling.
Rabid : Of or pertaining to rabies, or hydrophobia; as, rabid virus.
Race : Hence: The act or process of running in competition; a contest of speed in any way, as in running, riding, driving, skating, rowing, sailing; in the plural, usually, a meeting for contests in the running of horses; as, he attended the races.
Racemous : See Racemose.
Racial : Of or pertaining to a race or family of men; as, the racial complexion.
Rack : A piece or frame of wood, having several sheaves, through which the running rigging passes; -- called also rack block. Also, a frame to hold shot.
Racket : A carouse; any reckless dissipation.
Raconteur : A relater; a storyteller.
Radiale : Radial plates in the calyx of a crinoid.
Radiate : To emit or send out in direct lines from a point or points; as, to radiate heat.
Radical : Relating, or belonging, to the root, or ultimate source of derivation; as, a radical verbal form.
Radicate : To cause to take root; to plant deeply and firmly; to root.
Radiolarian : One of the Radiolaria.
Radius : An ideal straight line joining the center of an attracting body with that of a body describing an orbit around it, as a line joining the sun and a planet or comet, or a planet and its satellite.
Raffle : A kind of lottery, in which several persons pay, in shares, the value of something put up as a stake, and then determine by chance (as by casting dice) which one of them shall become the sole possessor.
Rafter : To plow so as to turn the grass side of each furrow upon an unplowed ridge; to ridge.
Ragamuffin : A person who wears ragged clothing.
Raggie : Alt. of Raggy
Raid : An attack or invasion for the purpose of making arrests, seizing property, or plundering; as, a raid of the police upon a gambling house; a raid of contractors on the public treasury.
Railer : One who rails; one who scoffs, insults, censures, or reproaches with opprobrious language.
Rain : To bestow in a profuse or abundant manner; as, to rain favors upon a person.
Raise : To cause to spring up from a recumbent position, from a state of quiet, or the like; to awaken; to arouse.
Raising : The act of lifting, setting up, elevating, exalting, producing, or restoring to life.
Rake : To scrape or scratch across; to pass over quickly and lightly, as a rake does.
Rakeshame : A vile, dissolute wretch.
Rally : To recover strength after a decline in prices; -- said of the market, stocks, etc.
Ram : To butt or strike against; to drive a ram against or through; to thrust or drive with violence; to force in; to drive together; to cram; as, to ram an enemy's vessel; to ram piles, cartridges, etc.
Ramblingly : In a rambling manner.
Ramiform : Having the form of a branch.
Ramose : Branched, as the stem or root of a plant; having lateral divisions; consisting of, or having, branches; full of branches; ramifying; branching; branchy.
Rampant : Ascending; climbing; rank in growth; exuberant.
Ramulose : Having many small branches, or ramuli.
Ranchmen : of Ranchman
Randing : A kind of basket work used in gabions.
Range : To sail or pass in a direction parallel to or near; as, to range the coast.
Range : In the public land system of the United States, a row or line of townships lying between two successive meridian lines six miles apart.
Rank : A row or line; a range; an order; a tier; as, a rank of osiers.
Rankness : The condition or quality of being rank.
Ranted : of Rant
Rap : A lay or skein containing 120 yards of yarn.
Rapacity : The act or practice of extorting or exacting by oppressive injustice; exorbitant greediness of gain.
Raphe : A line, ridge, furrow, or band of fibers, especially in the median line; as, the raphe of the tongue.
Rapped : imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away.
Raptorial : Of or pertaining to the Raptores. See Illust. (f) of Aves.
Rarefaction : The act or process of rarefying; the state of being rarefied; -- opposed to condensation; as, the rarefaction of air.
Rascaldom : State of being a rascal; rascality; domain of rascals; rascals, collectively.
Rash : Sudden in action; quick; hasty.
Rasp : A coarse file, on which the cutting prominences are distinct points raised by the oblique stroke of a sharp punch, instead of lines raised by a chisel, as on the true file.
Ratability : The quality or state of being ratable.
Rate : The gain or loss of a timepiece in a unit of time; as, daily rate; hourly rate; etc.
Rathe : Coming before others, or before the usual time; early.
Ratiocinate : To reason, esp. deductively; to offer reason or argument.
Rationalization : The act or process of rationalizing.
Rat-tail : Like a rat's tail in form; as, a rat-tail file, which is round, slender, and tapering. See Illust. of File.
Rattle : Hence, to disconcert; to confuse; as, to rattle one's judgment; to rattle a player in a game.
Rattletrap : Any machine or vehicle that does not run smoothly.
Ravager : One who, or that which, ravages or lays waste; spoiler.
Raveler : One who ravels.
Raven's-duck : A fine quality of sailcloth.
Ravishment : The act of ravishing a woman; rape.
Rawhide : A cowhide, or coarse riding whip, made of untanned (or raw) hide twisted.
Ray : To shine, as with rays.
Razorable : Ready for the razor; fit to be shaved.
Reach : Hence, to deliver by stretching out a member, especially the hand; to give with the hand; to pass to another; to hand over; as, to reach one a book.
Reacher : One who reaches.
Read : To interpret; to explain; as, to read a riddle.
Readept : To regain; to recover.
Reading : Addicted to reading; as, a reading community.
Ready : In a state of preparation for immediate action; so as to need no delay.
Real : Having an assignable arithmetical or numerical value or meaning; not imaginary.
Realize : To make real; to convert from the imaginary or fictitious into the actual; to bring into concrete existence; to effectuate; to accomplish; as, to realize a scheme or project.
Realty : Immobility, or the fixed, permanent nature of real property; as, chattels which savor of the realty; -- so written in legal language for reality.
Reap : To gather; to obtain; to receive as a reward or harvest, or as the fruit of labor or of works; -- in a good or a bad sense; as, to reap a benefit from exertions.
Rear : Being behind, or in the hindmost part; hindmost; as, the rear rank of a company.
Reremouse : The leather-winged bat (Vespertilio murinus).
Reason : To persuade by reasoning or argument; as, to reason one into a belief; to reason one out of his plan.
Reassessment : A renewed or second assessment.
Reaumur : A Reaumur thermometer or scale.
Rebate : A piece of wood hafted into a long stick, and serving to beat out mortar.
Rebiting : The act or process of deepening worn lines in an etched plate by submitting it again to the action of acid.
Rebuff : To beat back; to offer sudden resistance to; to check; to repel or repulse violently, harshly, or uncourteously.
Rebut : To drive or beat back; to repulse.
Recanting : of Recant
Recarry : To carry back.
Receipting : of Receipt
Receive : To return, or bat back, the ball when served; as, it is your turn to receive.
Recent : Of or pertaining to the present or existing epoch; as, recent shells.
Reception : Acceptance, as of an opinion or doctrine.
Recession : The act of receding or withdrawing, as from a place, a claim, or a demand.
Recipe : A formulary or prescription for making some combination, mixture, or preparation of materials; a receipt; especially, a prescription for medicine.
Reciprocate : To give and return mutually; to make return for; to give in return; to interchange; to alternate; as, to reciprocate favors.
Recitativo : Recitative.
Reckoned : of Reckon
Reclaim : To call back from flight or disorderly action; to call to, for the purpose of subduing or quieting.
Reclination : The angle which the plane of the dial makes with a vertical plane which it intersects in a horizontal line.
Recluseness : Quality or state of being recluse.
Recognize : To acknowledge acquaintance with, as by salutation, bowing, or the like.
Recoilment : Recoil.
Recomfort : To comfort again; to console anew; to give new strength to.
Recommit : To commit again; to give back into keeping; specifically, to refer again to a committee; as, to recommit a bill to the same committee.
Recomposing : of Recompose
Recondite : Hidden from the mental or intellectual view; secret; abstruse; as, recondite causes of things.
Reconsider : To take up for renewed consideration, as a motion or a vote which has been previously acted upon.
Recopy : To copy again.
Recorder : The title of the chief judical officer of some cities and boroughs; also, of the chief justice of an East Indian settlement. The Recorder of London is judge of the Lord Mayor's Court, and one of the commissioners of the Central Criminal Court.
Recourse : To have recourse; to resort.
Recoveror : The demandant in a common recovery after judgment.
Recrement : Superfluous matter separated from that which is useful; dross; scoria; as, the recrement of ore.
Recruiting : of Recruit
Rectifiable : Admitting, as a curve, of the construction of a straight l//e equal in length to any definite portion of the curve.
Rectitude : Straightness.
Rectory : The province of a rector; a parish church, parsonage, or spiritual living, with all its rights, tithes, and glebes.
Recuperable : Recoverable.
Recurrence : Alt. of Recurrency
Recusation : Refusal.
Redargue : To disprove; to refute; toconfute; to reprove; to convict.
Redden : To grow or become red; to blush.
Redeem : To pay the penalty of; to make amends for; to serve as an equivalent or offset for; to atone for; to compensate; as, to redeem an error.
Redemptible : Redeemable.
Redfinch : The European linnet.
Redia : A kind of larva, or nurse, which is prroduced within the sporocyst of certain trematodes by asexual generation. It in turn produces, in the same way, either another generation of rediae, or else cercariae within its own body. Called also proscolex, and nurse. See Illustration in Appendix.
Redistribute : To distribute again.
Redoubted : Formidable; dread.
Redraw : To draw a new bill of exchange, as the holder of a protested bill, on the drawer or indorsers.
Red-short : Hot-short; brittle when red-hot; -- said of certain kinds of iron.
Reduce : To bring to a certain state or condition by grinding, pounding, kneading, rubbing, etc.; as, to reduce a substance to powder, or to a pasty mass; to reduce fruit, wood, or paper rags, to pulp.
Reduction : The bringing of a syllogism in one of the so-called imperfect modes into a mode in the first figure.
Reduplication : The doubling of a stem or syllable (more or less modified), with the effect of changing the time expressed, intensifying the meaning, or making the word more imitative; also, the syllable thus added; as, L. tetuli; poposci.
Reed : An arrow, as made of a reed.
Reedwork : A collective name for the reed stops of an organ.
Reeky : Emitting reek.
Reembarkation : A putting, or going, on board a vessel again.
Reenjoy : To enjoy anew.
Reestablishment : The act reestablishing; the state of being reestablished.
Reezed : Grown rank; rancid; rusty.
Refer : To carry the mind or thought; to direct attention; as, the preacher referred to the late election.
Re-ferment : To ferment, or cause to ferment, again.
Refit : To fit or prepare for use again; to repair; to restore after damage or decay; as, to refit a garment; to refit ships of war.
Reflecting : Throwing back light, heat, etc., as a mirror or other surface.
Reflector : A device for reflecting sound.
Reflow : To flow back; to ebb.
Re-formed : of Re-form
Reformist : A reformer.
Refraction : The correction which is to be deducted from the apparent altitude of a heavenly body on account of atmospheric refraction, in order to obtain the true altitude.
Refrain : To abstain from
Refret : Refrain.
Refringency : The power possessed by a substance to refract a ray; as, different substances have different refringencies.
Refurnish : To furnish again.
Refutable : Admitting of being refuted or disproved; capable of being proved false or erroneous.
Regalia : Hence, decorations or insignia of an office or order, as of Freemasons, Odd Fellows,etc.
Regard : Attention of the mind with a feeling of interest; observation; heed; notice.
Regatta : Originally, a gondola race in Venice; now, a rowing or sailing race, or a series of such races.
Regeneration : The union of parts which have been severed, so that they become anatomically perfect; as, the regeneration of a nerve.
Regible : Governable; tractable.
Regimentals : The uniform worn by the officers and soldiers of a regiment; military dress; -- formerly used in the singular in the same sense.
Register : The correspondence or adjustment of the several impressions in a design which is printed in parts, as in chromolithographic printing, or in the manufacture of paper hangings. See Register, v. i. 2.
Registry : A record; an account; a register.
Regrant : To grant back; to grant again or anew.
Regress : To go back; to return to a former place or state.
Regular : Thorough; complete; unmitigated; as, a regular humbug.
Regulator : A contrivance for regulating and controlling motion, as: (a) The lever or index in a watch, which controls the effective length of the hairspring, and thus regulates the vibrations of the balance. (b) The governor of a steam engine. (c) A valve for controlling the admission of steam to the steam chest, in a locomotive.
Rehash : Something hashed over, or made up from old materials.
Reichsstand : A free city of the former German empire.
Reimbark : See Reembark.
Rein : The strap of a bridle, fastened to the curb or snaffle on each side, by which the rider or driver governs the horse.
Reinfund : To flow in anew.
Reinsure : To insure again after a former insuranse has ceased; to renew insurance on.
Reissue : To issue a second time.
Rejectamenta : Things thrown out or away; especially, things excreted by a living organism.
Rejoining : of Rejoin
Rejuvenescence : A method of cell formation in which the entire protoplasm of an old cell escapes by rupture of the cell wall, and then develops a new cell wall. It is seen sometimes in the formation of zoospores, etc.
Related : of Relate
Relation : The act of a relator at whose instance a suit is begun.
Relax : To make lax or loose; to make less close, firm, rigid, tense, or the like; to slacken; to loosen; to open; as, to relax a rope or cord; to relax the muscles or sinews.
Relay : A supply of hunting dogs or horses kept in readiness at certain places to relive the tired dogs or horses, and to continue the pursuit of the game if it comes that way.
Releasor : One by whom a release is given.
Relevancy : The quality or state of being relevant; pertinency; applicability.
Relief : Release from a post, or from the performance of duty, by the intervention of others, by discharge, or by relay; as, a relief of a sentry.
Relievement : The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; relief; release.
Religious : Of or pertaining to religion; concerned with religion; teaching, or setting forth, religion; set apart to religion; as, a religious society; a religious sect; a religious place; religious subjects, books, teachers, houses, wars.
Reliquiae : Same as Induviae.
Relocation : A second location.
Relied : of Rely
Remanded : of Remand
Remarker : One who remarks.
Remedies : of Remedy
Remembrance : Something remembered; a person or thing kept in memory.
Reminder : One who, or that which, reminds; that which serves to awaken remembrance.
Remission : The act of remitting, surrendering, resigning, or giving up.
Remit : To send money, as in payment.
Remodification : The act of remodifying; the state of being remodified.
Remonstrate : To present and urge reasons in opposition to an act, measure, or any course of proceedings; to expostulate; as, to remonstrate with a person regarding his habits; to remonstrate against proposed taxation.
Remote : Removed to a distance; not near; far away; distant; -- said in respect to time or to place; as, remote ages; remote lands.
Remove : To change place in any manner, or to make a change in place; to move or go from one residence, position, or place to another.
Remuneration : That which is given to remunerate; an equivalent given, as for services, loss, or sufferings.
Renascent : See Renaissant.
Rendering : of Render
Rendering : A version; translation; as, the rendering of the Hebrew text.
Renegade : An apostate from Christianity or from any form of religious faith.
Renewal : The act of renewing, or the state of being renewed; as, the renewal of a treaty.
Rennin : A milk-clotting enzyme obtained from the true stomach (abomasum) of a suckling calf. Mol. wt. about 31,000. Also called chymosin, rennase, and abomasal enzyme.
Renown : The state of being much known and talked of; exalted reputation derived from the extensive praise of great achievements or accomplishments; fame; celebrity; -- always in a good sense.
Rent : To take and hold under an agreement to pay rent; as, the tennant rents an estate of the owner.
Renverse : Reversed; set with the head downward; turned contrary to the natural position.
Repace : To pace again; to walk over again in a contrary direction.
Repand : Having a slightly undulating margin; -- said of leaves.
Repast : That which is taken as food; a meal; figuratively, any refreshment.
Repeal : Revocation; abrogation; as, the repeal of a statute; the repeal of a law or a usage.
Repeater : A pennant used to indicate that a certain flag in a hoist of signal is duplicated.
Repent : To change the mind, or the course of conduct, on account of regret or dissatisfaction.
Repercussion : The subsidence of a tumor or eruption by the action of a repellent.
Repetitionary : Of the nature of, or containing, repetition.
Replacement : The act of replacing.
Repletion : Fullness of blood; plethora.
Replication : The reply of the plaintiff, in matters of fact, to the defendant's plea.
Report : To give an account of; to relate; to tell; to circulate publicly, as a story; as, in the common phrase, it is reported.
Reporter : One who reports.
Reposed : Composed; calm; tranquil; at rest.
Reprehender : One who reprehends.
Representation : A likeness, a picture, or a model; as, a representation of the human face, or figure, and the like.
Representatively : In a representative manner; vicariously.
Reprieving : of Reprieve
Reprise : A taking by way of retaliation.
Reproacher : One who reproaches.
Reprobatory : Reprobative.
Reprove : To chide to the face as blameworthy; to accuse as guilty; to censure.
Republic : A state in which the sovereign power resides in the whole body of the people, and is exercised by representatives elected by them; a commonwealth. Cf. Democracy, 2.
Repudiated : of Repudiate
Repulse : To repel; to beat or drive back; as, to repulse an assault; to repulse the enemy.
Reputatively : By repute.
Requiem : Rest; quiet; peace.
Requisition : A written or normal call; an invitation; a summons; as, a reqisition for a public meeting.
Rerefief : A fief held of a superior feudatory; a fief held by an under tenant.
Rescindment : The act of rescinding; rescission.
Rescue : The forcible liberation of a person from an arrest or imprisonment.
Reseda : A grayish green color, like that of the flowers of mignonette.
Resemble : To cause to imitate or be like.
Resentingly : With a sense of wrong or affront; with resentment.
Reserve : To keep back; to retain; not to deliver, make over, or disclose.
Reset : That which is reset; matter set up again.
Reside : To sink; to settle, as sediment.
Residentship : The office or condition of a resident.
Resignation : The act of resigning or giving up, as a claim, possession, office, or the like; surrender; as, the resignation of a crown or comission.
Resiniform : Having the form of resin.
Resistant : Making resistance; resisting.
Resolution : The state of being relaxed; relaxation.
Resolve : To express, as an opinion or determination, by resolution and vote; to declare or decide by a formal vote; -- followed by a clause; as, the house resolved (or, it was resolved by the house) that no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).
Resolver : That which decomposes, or dissolves.
Resort : The act of going to, or making application; a betaking one's self; the act of visiting or seeking; recourse; as, a place of popular resort; -- often figuratively; as, to have resort to force.
Resourceless : Destitute of resources.
Respectable : Worthy of respect; fitted to awaken esteem; deserving regard; hence, of good repute; not mean; as, a respectable citizen.
Resperse : To sprinkle; to scatter.
Respite : Temporary suspension of the execution of a capital offender; reprieve.
Respond : To answer; to reply.
Response : A repetition of the given subject in a fugue by another part on the fifth above or fourth below.
Rest : To arrest.
Rest : To lay or place at rest; to quiet.
Restiff : Restive.
Restless : Never resting; unquiet; uneasy; continually moving; as, a restless child.
Restoring : of Restore
Restrainer : One who, or that which, restrains.
Restringent : A restringent medicine.
Resultful : HAving results or effects.
Resurgence : The act of rising again; resurrection.
Resuscitation : The act of resuscitating, or state of being resuscitated.
Retain : To belong; to pertain.
Retaliative : Same as Retaliatory.
Rete : A net or network; a plexus; particularly, a network of blood vessels or nerves, or a part resembling a network.
Retexture : The act of weaving or forming again.
Reticulate : Alt. of Reticulated
Retinasphalt : Alt. of Retinasphaltum
Retirade : A kind of retrenchment, as in the body of a bastion, which may be disputed inch by inch after the defenses are dismantled. It usually consists of two faces which make a reentering angle.
Retistene : A white crystalline hydrocarbon produced indirectly from retene.
Retoucher : One who retouches.
Retraction : The state or condition of a part when drawn back, or towards the center of the body.
Retreat : A period of several days of withdrawal from society to a religious house for exclusive occupation in the duties of devotion; as, to appoint or observe a retreat.
Retribution : Specifically, reward and punishment, as distributed at the general judgment.
Retroaction : Action returned, or action backward.
Retrogradation : The act of retrograding, or moving backward.
Retrorse : Bent backward or downward.
Rette : See Aret.
Return : Hence, to elect according to the official report of the election officers.
Returnable : Legally required to be returned, delivered, given, or rendered; as, a writ or precept returnable at a certain day; a verdict returnable to the court.
Revealing : of Reveal
Revelate : To reveal.
Revenging : of Revenge
Reverberated : of Reverberate
Reverenced : of Reverence
Reverse : Turned upside down; greatly disturbed.
Reversedly : In a reversed way.
Reverting : of Revert
Revestry : Same as Revestiary.
Review : To make a formal or official examination of the state of, as troops, and the like; as, to review a regiment.
Revilement : The act of reviling; also, contemptuous language; reproach; abuse.
Revisionary : Of or pertaining to revision; revisory.
Reviving : of Revive
Revocability : The quality of being revocable; as, the revocability of a law.
Revolting : of Revolt
Revolutionary : A revolutionist.
Revolving : Making a revolution or revolutions; rotating; -- used also figuratively of time, seasons, etc., depending on the revolution of the earth.
Rewe : To rue.
Rhabdite : A minute smooth rodlike or fusiform structure found in the tissues of many Turbellaria.
Rhachis : The spine.
Rhaphides : Minute transparent, often needle-shaped, crystals found in the tissues of plants.
Rhea : The ramie or grass-cloth plant. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass.
Rheophore : One of the poles of a voltaic battery; an electrode.
Rhetorician : Suitable to a master of rhetoric.
Rhine : A water course; a ditch.
Rhinophore : One of the two tentacle-like organs on the back of the head or neck of a nudibranch or tectibranch mollusk. They are usually retractile, and often transversely furrowed or plicate, and are regarded as olfactory organs. Called also dorsal tentacles. See Illust. under Pygobranchia, and Opisthobranchia.
Rhizoid : A rootlike appendage.
Rhodian : Of or pertaining to Rhodes, an island of the Mediterranean.
Rhombogene : A dicyemid which produces infusorialike embryos; -- opposed to nematogene. See Dicyemata.
Rhotacism : An oversounding, or a misuse, of the letter r; specifically (Phylol.), the tendency, exhibited in the Indo-European languages, to change s to r, as wese to were.
Rhymery : The art or habit of making rhymes; rhyming; -- in contempt.
Rhythmic : Alt. of Rhythmical
Rib : The chief nerve, or one of the chief nerves, of a leaf.
Ribaud : A ribald.
Ribboning : of Ribbon
Rich : Hence, in general, well supplied; abounding; abundant; copious; bountiful; as, a rich treasury; a rich entertainment; a rich crop.
Ricinoleic : Pertaining to, or designating, a fatty acid analogous to oleic acid, obtained from castor oil as an oily substance, C/H/O/ with a harsh taste. Formerly written ricinolic.
Rictus : The gape of the mouth, as of birds; -- often resricted to the corners of the mouth.
Riddle : Something proposed to be solved by guessing or conjecture; a puzzling question; an ambiguous proposition; an enigma; hence, anything ambiguous or puzzling.
Ride : To overlap (each other); -- said of bones or fractured fragments.
Ridge : A range of hills or mountains, or the upper part of such a range; any extended elevation between valleys.
Ridicle : Ridicule.
Riding : A district in charge of an excise officer.
Rifle : A strip of wood covered with emery or a similar material, used for sharpening scythes.
Rigging : of Rig
Riggle : The European lance fish.
Right : A true statement; freedom from error of falsehood; adherence to truth or fact.
Righteoused : Made righteous.
Right-hearted : Having a right heart or disposition.
Rigidity : The quality or state of being rigid; want of pliability; the quality of resisting change of form; the amount of resistance with which a body opposes change of form; -- opposed to flexibility, ductility, malleability, and softness.
Rigorism : Rigidity in principle or practice; strictness; -- opposed to laxity.
Rim : The border, edge, or margin of a thing, usually of something circular or curving; as, the rim of a kettle or basin.
Rimmer : An implement for cutting, trimming, or ornamenting the rim of anything, as the edges of pies, etc.; also, a reamer.
Rang : of Ring
Ring : The plane figure included between the circumferences of two concentric circles.
Ringer : A crowbar.
Ringtail : A light sail set abaft and beyong the leech of a boom-and-gaff sail; -- called also ringsail.
Riot : To disturb the peace; to raise an uproar or sedition. See Riot, n., 3.
Riparious : Growing along the banks of rivers; riparian.
Ripienist : A player in the ripieno portion of an orchestra. See Ripieno.
Ripple : the residual AC component in the DC current output from a rectifier, expressed as a percentage of the steady component of the current.
Rise : To become erect; to assume an upright position; as, to rise from a chair or from a fall.
Rise : To attain to a better social position; to be promoted; to excel; to succeed.
Riser : The upright piece of a step, from tread to tread.
Risk : To incur the risk or danger of; as, to risk a battle.
Ritual : Hence, the code of ceremonies observed by an organization; as, the ritual of the freemasons.
Rivality : Rivalry; competition.
River : To hawk by the side of a river; to fly hawks at river fowl.
Rixdaler : A Dutch silver coin, worth about $1.00.
Roadster : A clumsy vessel that works its way from one anchorage to another by means of the tides.
Roar : To bellow, or utter a deep, loud cry, as a lion or other beast.
Roasting : of Roast
Rob : To deprive of, or withhold from, unjustly or injuriously; to defraud; as, to rob one of his rest, or of his good name; a tree robs the plants near it of sunlight.
Robin : An American singing bird (Merula migratoria), having the breast chestnut, or dull red. The upper parts are olive-gray, the head and tail blackish. Called also robin redbreast, and migratory thrush.
Robustness : The quality or state of being robust.
Rock : The striped bass. See under Bass.
Rocket : Damewort.
Rock : A shaft that oscillates on its journals, instead of revolving, -- usually carrying levers by means of which it receives and communicates reciprocating motion, as in the valve gear of some steam engines; -- called also rocker, rocking shaft, and way shaft.
Roddy : Full of rods or twigs.
Rodsmen : of Rodsman
Rogue : To give the name or designation of rogue to; to decry.
Roin : A scab; a scurf, or scurfy spot.
Roll : To wrap round on itself; to form into a spherical or cylindrical body by causing to turn over and over; as, to roll a sheet of paper; to roll parchment; to roll clay or putty into a ball.
Roll : To make a loud or heavy rumbling noise; as, the thunder rolls.
Roller : A cylinder coated with a composition made principally of glue and molassess, with which forms of type are inked previously to taking an impression from them.
Romaic : Of or relating to modern Greece, and especially to its language.
Romanesque : Somewhat resembling the Roman; -- applied sometimes to the debased style of the later Roman empire, but esp. to the more developed architecture prevailing from the 8th century to the 12th.
Romantic : Of or pertaining to the style of the Christian and popular literature of the Middle Ages, as opposed to the classical antique; of the nature of, or appropriate to, that style; as, the romantic school of poets.
Romeward : Tending or directed toward Rome, or toward the Roman Catholic Church.
Rondel : A small round tower erected at the foot of a bastion.
Rood : The fourth part of an acre, or forty square rods.
Rook : Mist; fog. See Roke.
Roomed : of Room
Roorback : Alt. of Roorbach
Root : An ancestor or progenitor; and hence, an early race; a stem.
Rooty : Full of roots; as, rooty ground.
Ropery : Tricks deserving the halter; roguery.
Rorulent : Having the surface appearing as if dusty, or covered with fine dew.
Rose : A rose window. See Rose window, below.
Rosedrop : A kind of earring.
Rose-rial : A name of several English gold coins struck in different reigns and having having different values; a rose noble.
Rosied : Decorated with roses, or with the color of roses.
Rostel : same as Rostellum.
Rostrum : Hence, a stage for public speaking; the pulpit or platform occupied by an orator or public speaker.
Rota : A short-lived political club established in 1659 by J.Harrington to inculcate the democratic doctrine of election of the principal officers of the state by ballot, and the annual retirement of a portion of Parliament.
Rotator : A revolving reverberatory furnace.
Rother : A bovine beast.
Rotundity : Hence, completeness; entirety; roundness.
Rough : Not level; having a broken surface; uneven; -- said of a piece of land, or of a road.
Roughcast : To plaster with a mixture of lime and shells or pebbles; as, to roughcast a building.
Roughish : Somewhat rough.
Roulette : A game of chance, in which a small ball is made to move round rapidly on a circle divided off into numbered red and black spaces, the one on which it stops indicating the result of a variety of wagers permitted by the game.
Round : Full and smoothly expanded; not defective or abrupt; finished; polished; -- said of style, or of authors with reference to their style.
Round : Same as Round of beef, below.
Roundabout : Encircling; enveloping; comprehensive.
Rounder : An English game somewhat resembling baseball; also, another English game resembling the game of fives, but played with a football.
Roundness : Fullness; smoothness of flow; as, the roundness of a period; the roundness of a note; roundness of tone.
Rouse : To cause to start from a covert or lurking place; as, to rouse a deer or other animal of the chase.
Rout : A bellowing; a shouting; noise; clamor; uproar; disturbance; tumult.
Routinist : One who habituated to a routine.
Rover : A ball which has passed through all the hoops and would go out if it hit the stake but is continued in play; also, the player of such a ball.
Rowan : A european tree (Pyrus aucuparia) related to the apple, but with pinnate leaves and flat corymbs of small white flowers followed by little bright red berries. Called also roan tree, and mountain ash. The name is also applied to two American trees of similar habit (Pyrus Americana, and P. sambucifolia).
Rower : One who rows with an oar.
Royalization : The act of making loyal to a king.
Rubbing : of Rub
Rubber : One who, or that which, rubs.
Rubblework : Masonry constructed of unsquared stones that are irregular in size and shape.
Rubican : Colored a prevailing red, bay, or black, with flecks of white or gray especially on the flanks; -- said of horses.
Rubric : A titlepage, or part of it, especially that giving the date and place of printing; also, the initial letters, etc., when printed in red.
Ruby : Any species of South American humming birds of the genus Clytolaema. The males have a ruby-colored throat or breast.
Ruck : The common sort, whether persons or things; as, the ruck in a horse race.
Ruddle : A riddle or sieve.
Rudiment : An imperfect organ or part, or one which is never developed.
Rueful : Causing one to rue or lament; woeful; mournful; sorrowful.
Ruff : To beat with the ruff or ruffle, as a drum.
Ruffle : To erect in a ruff, as feathers.
Ruft : Eructation; belching.
Ruggy : Rugged; rough.
Ruinable : Capable of being ruined.
Rule : An order regulating the practice of the courts, or an order made between parties to an action or a suit.
Ruler : A straight or curved strip of wood, metal, etc., with a smooth edge, used for guiding a pen or pencil in drawing lines. Cf. Rule, n., 7 (a).
Rumblingly : In a rumbling manner.
Rumination : The state of being disposed to ruminate or ponder; deliberate meditation or reflection.
Rumor : A flying or popular report; the common talk; hence, public fame; notoriety.
Rumpless : Destitute of a rump.
Run : To proceed along a surface; to extend; to spread.
Run : To move rapidly by springing steps so that there is an instant in each step when neither foot touches the ground; -- so distinguished from walking in athletic competition.
Run : That which runs or flows in the course of a certain operation, or during a certain time; as, a run of must in wine making; the first run of sap in a maple orchard.
Runaway : The act of running away, esp. of a horse or teams; as, there was a runaway yesterday.
Rung : One of the rounds of a ladder.
Runner : A food fish (Elagatis pinnulatus) of Florida and the West Indies; -- called also skipjack, shoemaker, and yellowtail. The name alludes to its rapid successive leaps from the water.
Runt : Any animal which is unusually small, as compared with others of its kind; -- applied particularly to domestic animals.
Ruptured : of Rupture
Ruralize : To become rural; to go into the country; to rusticate.
Rush-bearing : A kind of rural festival at the dedication of a church, when the parishioners brought rushes to strew the church.
Russet : Coarse; homespun; rustic.
Rust : That which resembles rust in appearance or effects.
Rusticating : of Rusticate
Rusty : Impaired by inaction, disuse, or neglect.
Ruthenious : Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a lower valence as contrasted with ruthenic compounds.
Rutty : Ruttish; lustful.
-s : The suffix used to form the third person singular indicative of English verbs; as in falls, tells, sends.
Sabbath : Fig.: A time of rest or repose; intermission of pain, effort, sorrow, or the like.
Sabre : To strike, cut, or kill with a saber; to cut down, as with a saber.
Sabot : A thick, circular disk of wood, to which the cartridge bag and projectile are attached, in fixed ammunition for cannon; also, a piece of soft metal attached to a projectile to take the groove of the rifling.
Sacchariferous : Producing sugar; as, sacchariferous canes.
Saccharomyces : A genus of budding fungi, the various species of which have the power, to a greater or less extent, or splitting up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid. They are the active agents in producing fermentation of wine, beer, etc. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the yeast of sedimentary beer. Also called Torula.
Saccule : A little sac; specifically, the sacculus of the ear.
Sack : A bag for holding and carrying goods of any kind; a receptacle made of some kind of pliable material, as cloth, leather, and the like; a large pouch.
Sacking : Stout, coarse cloth of which sacks, bags, etc., are made.
Sacramentary : Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.
Sacrifical : Employed in sacrifice.
Sacrilegist : One guilty of sacrilege.
Sad : To make sorrowful; to sadden.
Saddle : Hence: To fix as a charge or burden upon; to load; to encumber; as, to saddle a town with the expense of bridges and highways.
Sadducaic : Pertaining to, or like, the Sadducees; as, Sadducaic reasonings.
Safe : A place for keeping things in safety.
Safflow : The safflower.
Sag : State of sinking or bending; sagging.
Sageness : The quality or state of being sage; wisdom; sagacity; prudence; gravity.
Sagittary : Pertaining to, or resembling, an arrow.
Said : Before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style.
Sailboat : A boat propelled by a sail or sails.
Saint : One of the blessed in heaven.
Saint-Simonianism : The principles, doctrines, or practice of the Saint-Simonians; -- called also Saint- Simonism.
Salable : Capable of being sold; fit to be sold; finding a ready market.
Salamstone : A kind of blue sapphire brought from Ceylon.
Salesmen : of Salesman
Salience : The quality or condition of being salient; a leaping; a springing forward; an assaulting.
Salimetry : The art or process of measuring the amount of salt in a substance.
Salite : A massive lamellar variety of pyroxene, of a dingy green color.
Sallow : The willow; willow twigs.
Salmi : Same as Salmis.
Salpae : of Salpa
Salt : A sailor; -- usually qualified by old.
Saltation : A leaping or jumping.
Saltigrade : One of the Saltigradae, a tribe of spiders which leap to seize their prey.
Salutary : Wholesome; healthful; promoting health; as, salutary exercise.
Salvability : The quality or condition of being salvable; salvableness.
Salver : One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a quacksalver, or quack.
Sambo : A colloquial or humorous appellation for a negro; sometimes, the offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo.
Samoan : An inhabitant of the Samoan Islands.
Sanation : The act of healing or curing.
Sanctifyingly : In a manner or degree tending to sanctify or make holy.
Sanctuary : The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant, and into which no person was permitted to enter except the high priest, and he only once a year, to intercede for the people; also, the most sacred part of the tabernacle; also, the temple at Jerusalem.
Sandal : A kind of shoe consisting of a sole strapped to the foot; a protection for the foot, covering its lower surface, but not its upper.
Sanders : An old name of sandalwood, now applied only to the red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.
Sandwiched : of Sandwich
Sangreal : See Holy Grail, under Grail.
Sanguine : Blood color; red.
Sanhita : A collection of vedic hymns, songs, or verses, forming the first part of each Veda.
Sans : Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an English word.
Santonic : Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid (distinct from santoninic acid) obtained from santonin as a white crystalline substance.
Saphead : A weak-minded, stupid fellow; a milksop.
Saponacity : The quality or state of being saponaceous.
Sapphic : Of or pertaining to Sappho, the Grecian poetess; as, Sapphic odes; Sapphic verse.
Sapsago : A kind of Swiss cheese, of a greenish color, flavored with melilot.
Sarcin : Same as Hypoxanthin.
Sarcologic : Alt. of Sarcological
Sarcoptid : Any species of the genus Sarcoptes and related genera of mites, comprising the itch mites and mange mites.
Sardinian : A native or inhabitant of Sardinia.
Sarmatic : Of or pertaining to Sarmatia, or its inhabitants, the ancestors of the Russians and the Poles.
Sarse : To sift through a sarse.
Sassafras : An American tree of the Laurel family (Sassafras officinale); also, the bark of the roots, which has an aromatic smell and taste.
Sating : of Sate
Satinet : A kind of cloth made of cotton warp and woolen filling, used chiefly for trousers.
Satisfier : One who satisfies.
Saturant : Impregnating to the full; saturating.
Saturnalia : Hence: A period or occasion of general license, in which the passions or vices have riotous indulgence.
Sauba : A South American ant (Oecodoma cephalotes) remarkable for having two large kinds of workers besides the ordinary ones, and for the immense size of its formicaries. The sauba ant cuts off leaves of plants and carries them into its subterranean nests, and thus often does great damage by defoliating trees and cultivated plants.
Saucily : In a saucy manner; impudently; with impertinent boldness.
Saunders-blue : A kind of color prepared from calcined lapis lazuli; ultramarine; also, a blue prepared from carbonate of copper.
Saururae : An extinct order of birds having a long vertebrated tail with quills along each side of it. Archaeopteryx is the type. See Archaeopteryx, and Odontornithes.
Savage : Wild; untamed; uncultivated; as, savage beasts.
Save : Specifically, to deliver from sin and its penalty; to rescue from a state of condemnation and spiritual death, and bring into a state of spiritual life.
Saving : Avoiding unnecessary expense or waste; frugal; not lavish or wasteful; economical; as, a saving cook.
Savor : To partake of the quality or nature; to indicate the presence or influence; to smack; -- with of.
Sawed : of Saw
Sawfly : Any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to the family Tenthredinidae. The female usually has an ovipositor containing a pair of sawlike organs with which she makes incisions in the leaves or stems of plants in which to lay the eggs. The larvae resemble those of Lepidoptera.
Saxicava : Any species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Saxicava. Some of the species are noted for their power of boring holes in limestone and similar rocks.
Saxonism : An idiom of the Saxon or Anglo-Saxon language.
Sayer : One who says; an utterer.
Scabbed : Abounding with scabs; diseased with scabs.
Scad : The cigar fish, or round robin.
Scalary : Resembling a ladder; formed with steps.
Scale : Hence, any layer or leaf of metal or other material, resembling in size and thinness the scale of a fish; as, a scale of iron, of bone, etc.
Scale : Relative dimensions, without difference in proportion of parts; size or degree of the parts or components in any complex thing, compared with other like things; especially, the relative proportion of the linear dimensions of the parts of a drawing, map, model, etc., to the dimensions of the corresponding parts of the object that is represented; as, a map on a scale of an inch to a mile.
Scale-winged : Having the wings covered with small scalelike structures, as the Lepidoptera; scaly-winged.
Scalloper : One who fishes for scallops.
Scaly : Covered or abounding with scales; as, a scaly fish.
Scamp : A rascal; a swindler; a rogue.
Scandalizing : of Scandalize
Scant : Not full, large, or plentiful; scarcely sufficient; less than is wanted for the purpose; scanty; meager; not enough; as, a scant allowance of provisions or water; a scant pattern of cloth for a garment.
Scantling : A rough draught; a rude sketch or outline.
Scapegoat : A goat upon whose head were symbolically placed the sins of the people, after which he was suffered to escape into the wilderness.
Scapple : To work roughly, or shape without finishing, as stone before leaving the quarry.
Scarring : of Scar
Scarcity : The quality or condition of being scarce; smallness of quantity in proportion to the wants or demands; deficiency; lack of plenty; short supply; penury; as, a scarcity of grain; a great scarcity of beauties.
Scarf : To unite, as two pieces of timber or metal, by a scarf joint.
Scarlet : To dye or tinge with scarlet.
Scat : Alt. of Scatt
Scatter : To be dispersed or dissipated; to disperse or separate; as, clouds scatter after a storm.
Scelerat : A villain; a criminal.
Sceneshifter : One who moves the scenes in a theater; a sceneman.
Scepsis : Skepticism; skeptical philosophy.
Schediasm : Cursory writing on a loose sheet.
Scheme : A representation of the aspects of the celestial bodies for any moment or at a given event.
Schiller : The peculiar bronzelike luster observed in certain minerals, as hypersthene, schiller spar, etc. It is due to the presence of minute inclusions in parallel position, and is sometimes of secondary origin.
Schizo- : A combining form denoting division or cleavage; as, schizogenesis, reproduction by fission or cell division.
Schmelze : A kind of glass of a red or ruby color, made in Bohemia.
Scholastical : Scholastic.
School : The room or hall in English universities where the examinations for degrees and honors are held.
Schoolma'am : A schoolmistress.
Schreibersite : A mineral occurring in steel-gray flexible folia. It contains iron, nickel, and phosphorus, and is found only in meteoric iron.
Sciatical : Sciatic.
Scillitin : A bitter principle extracted from the bulbs of the squill (Scilla), and probably consisting of a complex mixture of several substances.
Scintillously : In a scintillant manner.
Scirrhoid : Resembling scirrhus.
Scissors-tailed : Having the outer feathers much the longest, the others decreasing regularly to the median ones.
Sclerenchymatous : Pertaining to, or composed of, sclerenchyma.
Scleroma : Induration of the tissues. See Sclerema, Scleroderma, and Sclerosis.
Scoat : To prop; to scotch.
Scold : One who scolds, or makes a practice of scolding; esp., a rude, clamorous woman; a shrew.
Scolopendra : A sea fish.
Sconce : A fragment of a floe of ice.
Scooper : The avocet; -- so called because it scoops up the mud to obtain food.
Scopulas : of Scopula
Score : An account or reckoning; account of dues; bill; hence, indebtedness.
Scoria : Cellular slaggy lava; volcanic cinders.
Scornful : Full of scorn or contempt; contemptuous; disdainful.
Scorpiones : A division of arachnids comprising the scorpions.
Scotch : To cut superficially; to wound; to score.
Scottering : The burning of a wad of pease straw at the end of harvest.
Scourer : One who, or that which, scours.
Scouting : of Scout
Scrabble : To make irregular, crooked, or unmeaning marks; to scribble; to scrawl.
Scramble : To clamber with hands and knees; to scrabble; as, to scramble up a cliff; to scramble over the rocks.
Scraped : of Scrape
Scraper : One who plays awkwardly on a violin.
Scratch : Minute, but tender and troublesome, excoriations, covered with scabs, upon the heels of horses which have been used where it is very wet or muddy.
Scrawny : Meager; thin; rawboned; bony; scranny.
Screechy : Like a screech; shrill and harsh.
Screw : An instructor who examines with great or unnecessary severity; also, a searching or strict examination of a student by an instructor.
Scribbet : A painter's pencil.
Scribe : To cut (anything) in such a way as to fit closely to a somewhat irregular surface, as a baseboard to a floor which is out of level, a board to the curves of a molding, or the like; -- so called because the workman marks, or scribe, with the compasses the line that he afterwards cuts.
Scrimption : A small portion; a pittance; a little bit.
Scripturalism : The quality or state of being scriptural; literal adherence to the Scriptures.
Scrode : A young codfish, especially when cut open on the back and dressed.
Scrow : A scroll.
Scruff : The nape of the neck; the loose outside skin, as of the back of the neck.
Scrutable : Discoverable by scrutiny, inquiry, or critical examination.
Scudded : of Scud
Scuffle : To strive or struggle with a close grapple; to wrestle in a rough fashion.
Scull : To impel (a boat) with a pair of sculls, or with a single scull or oar worked over the stern obliquely from side to side.
Sculpture : Carved work modeled of, or cut upon, wood, stone, metal, etc.
Scummer : To scumber.
Scurfiness : Quality or state of being scurfy.
Scutal : Of or pertaining to a shield.
Scutelle : of Scutella
Scutiferous : Carrying a shield or buckler.
Scutum : One of the two lower valves of the operculum of a barnacle.
Scyphus : The cup of a narcissus, or a similar appendage to the corolla in other flowers.
Sea : The swell of the ocean or other body of water in a high wind; motion of the water's surface; also, a single wave; a billow; as, there was a high sea after the storm; the vessel shipped a sea.
Sea : Same as Florida bean.
Sea : A breaking or overflow of a bank or a dike by the sea.
Sea : In a steamship, a cock or valve close to the vessel's side, for closing a pipe which communicates with the sea.
Sea : Any large holothurian, especially one of those belonging to the genus Pentacta, or Cucumaria, as the common American and European species. (P. frondosa).
Sea : A very large seal (Macrorhinus proboscideus) of the Antarctic seas, much hunted for its oil. It sometimes attains a length of thirty feet, and is remarkable for the prolongation of the nose of the adult male into an erectile elastic proboscis, about a foot in length. Another species of smaller size (M. angustirostris) occurs on the coast of Lower California, but is now nearly extinct.
Sea : A hydroid coral of the genus Millepora, especially M. alcicornis, of the West Indies and Florida. So called because it stings the tongue like ginger. See Illust. under Millepore.
Sea : A sea urchin.
Seal : An arrangement for preventing the entrance or return of gas or air into a pipe, by which the open end of the pipe dips beneath the surface of water or other liquid, or a deep bend or sag in the pipe is filled with the liquid; a draintrap.
Sea : Any one of several species of nudibranchiate mollusks of the genus Doris and allied genera, having a smooth, thick, convex yellow body.
Seaming : of Seam
Sea : Any bryozoan of the genus Flustra or allied genera which form frondlike corals.
Sean : A seine. See Seine.
Sea : The name is applied also to other species of fishes.
Sea : Any fish of the genus Diodon, and allied genera, whose body is covered with spines. See Illust. under Diodon.
Sea : An American cottoid fish (Hemitripterus Americanus) allied to the sculpins, found on the northeren Atlantic coasts.
Searcher : An instrument for examining the bore of a cannon, to detect cavities.
Sea : Common salt, obtained from sea water by evaporation.
Sea : Any small creeping marine gastropod, as the species of Littorina, Natica, etc.
Season : To give token; to savor.
Seat : That part of a thing on which a person sits; as, the seat of a chair or saddle; the seat of a pair of pantaloons.
Seatless : Having no seat.
Seawant : The name used by the Algonquin Indians for the shell beads which passed among the Indians as money.
Sea : A sea slater.
Secco : Dry.
Seche : To seek.
Second : The interval between any tone and the tone which is represented on the degree of the staff next above it.
Secondary : A secondary quill.
Secret : Withdraw from general intercourse or notice; in retirement or secrecy; secluded.
Secrete : To deposit in a place of hiding; to hide; to conceal; as, to secrete stolen goods; to secrete one's self.
Sectarian : One of a sect; a member or adherent of a special school, denomination, or religious or philosophical party; one of a party in religion which has separated itself from established church, or which holds tenets different from those of the prevailing denomination in a state.
Sectional : Consisting of sections, or capable of being divided into sections; as, a sectional steam boiler.
Secular : A secular ecclesiastic, or one not bound by monastic rules.
Secundo-geniture : A right of inheritance belonging to a second son; a property or possession so inherited.
Security : The condition or quality of being secure; secureness.
Sedentary : Caused by long sitting.
Seducing : of Seduce
Seeing : of See
Seeding : of Seed
Seedy : Abounding with seeds; bearing seeds; having run to seeds.
Seel : To incline to one side; to lean; to roll, as a ship at sea.
Seemly : Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character; suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous.
Seesaw : A play among children in which they are seated upon the opposite ends of a plank which is balanced in the middle, and move alternately up and down.
Seg : The gladen, and other species of Iris.
Sego : A liliaceous plant (Calochortus Nuttallii) of Western North America, and its edible bulb; -- so called by the Ute Indians and the Mormons.
Seignioralty : The territory or authority of a seignior, or lord.
Seismography : A writing about, or a description of, earthquakes.
Seizin : Possession; possession of an estate of froehold. It may be either in deed or in law; the former when there is actual possession, the latter when there is a right to such possession by construction of law. In some of the United States seizin means merely ownership.
Selachoidei : Same as Selachii.
Selective : Selecting; tending to select.
Selenograph : A picture or delineation of the moon's surface, or of any part of it.
Self-abuse : Self-deception; delusion.
Self-assumed : Assumed by one's own act, or without authority.
Self-conceited : Having an overweening opinion of one's own powers, attainments; vain; conceited.
Self-created : Created by one's self; not formed or constituted by another.
Self-determining : Capable of self-determination; as, the self-determining power of will.
Self-existence : Inherent existence; existence possessed by virtue of a being's own nature, and independent of any other being or cause; -- an attribute peculiar to God.
Self-imposed : Voluntarily taken on one's self; as, self-imposed tasks.
Selflessness : Quality or state of being selfless.
Self-positing : The act of disposing or arranging one's self or itself.
Self-reproving : Reproving one's self; reproving by consciousness of guilt.
Self-sufficiency : The quality or state of being self-sufficient.
Sell : Self.
Selvedge : The edge of cloth which is woven in such a manner as to prevent raveling.
Semblance : Seeming; appearance; show; figure; form.
Semeiotic : Alt. of Semiotic
Semi-Arian : A member of a branch of the Arians which did not acknowledge the Son to be consubstantial with the Father, that is, of the same substance, but admitted him to be of a like substance with the Father, not by nature, but by a peculiar privilege.
Semicircle : The half of a circle; the part of a circle bounded by its diameter and half of its circumference.
Semicylyndrical : Half cylindrical.
Semifloscule : A floscule, or florest, with its corolla prolonged into a strap-shaped petal; -- called also semifloret.
Semilunary : Semilunar.
Seminary : Seminal state.
Semiofficial : Half official; having some official authority or importance; as, a semiofficial statement.
Semi-Pelagian : Of or pertaining to the Semi-Pelagians, or their tenets.
Semi-Saxon : Half Saxon; -- specifically applied to the language intermediate between Saxon and English, belonging to the period 1150-1250.
Semitranslucent : Slightly clear; transmitting light in a slight degree.
Sempervive : The houseleek.
Senate : In some American colleges, a council of elected students, presided over by the president of the college, to which are referred cases of discipline and matters of general concern affecting the students.
Sender : One who sends.
Senior : One in the fourth or final year of his collegiate course at an American college; -- originally called senior sophister; also, one in the last year of the course at a professional schools or at a seminary.
Sensate : To feel or apprehend more or less distinctly through a sense, or the senses; as, to sensate light, or an odor.
Sense : One of two opposite directions in which a line, surface, or volume, may be supposed to be described by the motion of a point, line, or surface.
Sensibleness : The quality or state of being sensible; sensibility; appreciation; capacity of perception; susceptibility.
Sensitory : See Sensory.
Sensualistic : Sensual.
Sentence : A short saying, usually containing moral instruction; a maxim; an axiom; a saw.
Sentient : Having a faculty, or faculties, of sensation and perception. Specif. (Physiol.), especially sensitive; as, the sentient extremities of nerves, which terminate in the various organs or tissues.
Sentineled : of Sentinel
Separating : of Separate
Separator : An apparatus for sorting pulverized ores into grades, or separating them from gangue.
Sepiment : Something that separates; a hedge; a fence.
September : The ninth month of the year, containing thurty days.
Septentrion : The north or northern regions.
Septicidal : Dividing the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in which a pod splits through the partitions and is divided into its component carpels.
Septuagesima : The third Sunday before Lent; -- so called because it is about seventy days before Easter.
Sepulchered : of Sepulchre
Sequela : An adherent, or a band or sect of adherents.
Sequester : To set apart; to put aside; to remove; to separate from other things.
Sequestrator : One to whom the keeping of sequestered property is committed.
Seraphina : A seraphine.
Serene : Serenity; clearness; calmness.
Sergeant : A lawyer of the highest rank, answering to the doctor of the civil law; -- called also serjeant at law.
Sericterium : A silk gland, as in the silkworms.
Sermon : A discourse or address; a talk; a writing; as, the sermons of Chaucer.
Serolin : A peculiar fatty substance found in the blood, probably a mixture of fats, cholesterin, etc.
Serpenting : of Serpent
Serpette : A pruning knife with a curved blade.
Serrature : A notching, like that between the teeth of a saw, in the edge of anything.
Serum : A thin watery fluid, containing more or less albumin, secreted by the serous membranes of the body, such as the pericardium and peritoneum.
Serve : To contribute or conduce to; to promote; to be sufficient for; to satisfy; as, to serve one's turn.
Service : A name given to several trees and shrubs of the genus Pyrus, as Pyrus domestica and P. torminalis of Europe, the various species of mountain ash or rowan tree, and the American shad bush (see Shad bush, under Shad). They have clusters of small, edible, applelike berries.
Servile : Not belonging to the original root; as, a servile letter.
Sesamoid : A sesamoid bone or cartilage.
Sesquisalt : A salt derived from a sesquioxide base, or made up on the proportions of a sesqui compound.
Sestet : The last six lines of a sonnet.
Set : To make to agree with some standard; as, to set a watch or a clock.
Set : To apply one's self; to undertake earnestly; -- now followed by out.
Set : A young oyster when first attached.
Setfoil : See Septfoil.
Set-stitched : Stitched according to a formal pattern.
Settling : of Settle
Settle : To become calm; to cease from agitation.
Settler : A vessel, as a tub, in which something, as pulverized ore suspended in a liquid, is allowed to settle.
Seventeenth : Next in order after the sixteenth; coming after sixteen others.
Seventy : A symbol representing seventy units, as 70, or lxx.
Severality : Each particular taken singly; distinction.
Sevres : Porcelain manufactured at Sevres, France, ecpecially in the national factory situated there.
Sewer : A drain or passage to carry off water and filth under ground; a subterraneous channel, particularly in cities.
Sexagesimal : A sexagesimal fraction.
Sexly : Pertaining to sex.
Sextillion : According to the method of numeration (which is followed also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-one ciphers annexed. According to the English method, a million raised to the sixth power, or the number expressed by a unit with thirty-six ciphers annexed. See Numeration.
Seyh : imp. sing. & 2d pers. pl. of See.
Shabby : Clothed with ragged, much worn, or soiled garments.
Shackle : Figuratively: To bind or confine so as to prevent or embarrass action; to impede; to cumber.
Shading : of Shade
Shadow : A spirit; a ghost; a shade; a phantom.
Shadowy : Not brightly luminous; faintly light.
Shaft : A pole, especially a Maypole.
Shagging : of Shag
Shail : To walk sidewise.
Shaken : Caused to shake; agitated; as, a shaken bough.
Shall : To be obliged; must.
Shallow-waisted : Having a flush deck, or with only a moderate depression amidships; -- said of a vessel.
Shamble : A place for slaughtering animals for meat.
Shameless : Destitute of shame; wanting modesty; brazen-faced; insensible to disgrace.
Shanghaiing : of Shanghai
Shannies : of Shanny
Shape : A model; a pattern; a mold.
Sharded : Having elytra, as a beetle.
Shark : Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes of the order Plagiostomi, found in all seas.
Sharp : Eager in pursuit; keen in quest; impatient for gratification; keen; as, a sharp appetite.
Sharp : To sing above the proper pitch.
Sharp-set : Eager in appetite or desire of gratification; affected by keen hunger; ravenous; as, an eagle or a lion sharp-set.
Shatter-pated : Disordered or wandering in intellect; hence, heedless; wild.
Shaver : One who shaves; one whose occupation is to shave.
Sheaf : A quantity of the stalks and ears of wheat, rye, or other grain, bound together; a bundle of grain or straw.
Shear : To produce a change of shape in by a shear. See Shear, n., 4.
Shearman : One whose occupation is to shear cloth.
Sheating : of Sheathe
Shebander : A harbor master, or ruler of a port, in the East Indies.
Shedder : One who, or that which, sheds; as, a shedder of blood; a shedder of tears.
Sheepcot : Alt. of Sheepcote
Sheepy : Resembling sheep; sheepish.
Sheet : the book itself.
Sheik : The head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village. The name is also applied to Mohammedan ecclesiastics of a high grade.
Shell : A hard outside covering, as of a fruit or an animal.
Shell : To fall off, as a shell, crust, etc.
Shelter : To be a shelter for; to provide with a shelter; to cover from injury or annoyance; to shield; to protect.
Shemitish : Of or pertaining to Shem, the son of Noah, or his descendants. See Semitic.
Shepherdish : Resembling a shepherd; suiting a shepherd; pastoral.
Sherry : A Spanish light-colored dry wine, made in Andalusia. As prepared for commerce it is colored a straw color or a deep amber by mixing with it cheap wine boiled down.
Shide : A thin board; a billet of wood; a splinter.
Shieldless : Destitute of a shield, or of protection.
Shift : In building, the extent, or arrangement, of the overlapping of plank, brick, stones, etc., that are placed in courses so as to break joints.
Shill : To put under cover; to sheal.
Shin : The front part of the leg below the knee; the front edge of the shin bone; the lower part of the leg; the shank.
Shine : To cause to shine, as a light.
Shingle : To subject to the process of shindling, as a mass of iron from the pudding furnace.
-ship : A suffix denoting state, office, dignity, profession, or art; as in lordship, friendship, chancellorship, stewardship, horsemanship.
Shipholder : A shipowner.
Shipshape : Arranged in a manner befitting a ship; hence, trim; tidy; orderly.
Shirk : To evade an obligation; to avoid the performance of duty, as by running away.
Shittim : Alt. of Shittim wood
Shiver : To cause to shake or tremble, as a sail, by steering close to the wind.
Shoar : A prop. See 3d Shore.
Shock-headed : Having a thick and bushy head of hair.
Shoe : A trough-shaped or spout-shaped member, put at the bottom of the water leader coming from the eaves gutter, so as to throw the water off from the building.
Shoemaking : The business of a shoemaker.
Shoon : pl. of Shoe.
Shoot : To grow; to advance; as, to shoot up rapidly.
Shop : A building or an apartment in which goods, wares, drugs, etc., are sold by retail.
Shoppish : Having the appearance or qualities of a shopkeeper, or shopman.
Shoreward : Toward the shore.
Short : Not prolonged, or relatively less prolonged, in utterance; -- opposed to long, and applied to vowels or to syllables. In English, the long and short of the same letter are not, in most cases, the long and short of the same sound; thus, the i in ill is the short sound, not of i in isle, but of ee in eel, and the e in pet is the short sound of a in pate, etc. See Quantity, and Guide to Pronunciation, //22, 30.
Shortcoming : Neglect of, or failure in, performance of duty.
Shortness : The quality or state of being short; want of reach or extension; brevity; deficiency; as, the shortness of a journey; the shortness of the days in winter; the shortness of an essay; the shortness of the memory; a shortness of provisions; shortness of breath.
Shot : The flight of a missile, or the distance which it is, or can be, thrown; as, the vessel was distant more than a cannon shot.
Shoulder : The joint, or the region of the joint, by which the fore limb is connected with the body or with the shoulder girdle; the projection formed by the bones and muscles about that joint.
Shoved : of Shove
Shovelboard : A game played on board ship in which the aim is to shove or drive with a cue wooden disks into divisions chalked on the deck; -- called also shuffleboard.
Show : To bestow; to confer; to afford; as, to show favor.
Shower : To rain in showers; to fall, as in a hower or showers.
Shram : To cause to shrink or shrivel with cold; to benumb.
Shrew : Any small insectivore of the genus Sorex and several allied genera of the family Sorecidae. In form and color they resemble mice, but they have a longer and more pointed nose. Some of them are the smallest of all mammals.
Shright : A shriek; shrieking.
Shrine : Any sacred place, as an altar, tromb, or the like.
Shrivalty : Shrievalty.
Shrood : To trim; to lop.
Shrove : To join in the festivities of Shrovetide; hence, to make merry.
Shrug : A drawing up of the shoulders, -- a motion usually expressing dislike, dread, or doubt.
Shuffle : To change the relative position of cards in a pack; as, to shuffle and cut.
Shunless : Not to be shunned; inevitable; unavoidable.
Shut : Rid; clear; free; as, to get shut of a person.
Shy : Easily frightened; timid; as, a shy bird.
Sib : Related by blood; akin.
Siccate : To dry.
Sickened : of Sicken
Sickish : Somewhat sickening; as, a sickish taste.
Sickly : To make sick or sickly; -- with over, and probably only in the past participle.
Side : To embrace the opinions of one party, or engage in its interest, in opposition to another party; to take sides; as, to side with the ministerial party.
Sideration : The state of being siderated, or planet-struck; esp., blast in plants; also, a sudden and apparently causeless stroke of disease, as in apoplexy or paralysis.
Sidesaddle : A saddle for women, in which the rider sits with both feet on one side of the animal mounted.
Siege : Rank; grade; station; estimation.
Sifflement : The act of whistling or hissing; a whistling sound; sibilation.
Sigh : A deep and prolonged audible inspiration or respiration of air, as when fatigued or grieved; the act of sighing.
Sight : To apply sights to; to adjust the sights of; also, to give the proper elevation and direction to by means of a sight; as, to sight a rifle or a cannon.
Sigil : A seal; a signature.
Sign : A word or a character regarded as the outward manifestation of thought; as, words are the sign of ideas.
Signable : Suitable to be signed; requiring signature; as, a legal document signable by a particular person.
Signalment : The act of signaling, or of signalizing; hence, description by peculiar, appropriate, or characteristic marks.
Signeted : Stamped or marked with a signet.
Signifying : of Signify
Sikerly : Alt. of Sikerness
Silence : To cause to cease firing, as by a vigorous cannonade; as, to silence the batteries of an enemy.
Silica : Silicon dioxide, SiO/. It constitutes ordinary quartz (also opal and tridymite), and is artifically prepared as a very fine, white, tasteless, inodorous powder.
Silicium : See Silicon.
Siliquosa : A Linnaean order of plants including those which bear siliques.
Sill : The basis or foundation of a thing; especially, a horizontal piece, as a timber, which forms the lower member of a frame, or supports a structure; as, the sills of a house, of a bridge, of a loom, and the like.
Sillyhow : A caul. See Caul, n., 3.
Silvan : Of or pertaining to woods; composed of woods or groves; woody.
Silver : To make hoary, or white, like silver.
Silversmith : One whose occupation is to manufacture utensils, ornaments, etc., of silver; a worker in silver.
Similar : That which is similar to, or resembles, something else, as in quality, form, etc.
Simmer : To cause to boil gently; to cook in liquid heated almost or just to the boiling point.
Simpering : a. &. n. from Simper, v.
Simple : To gather simples, or medicinal plants.
Simplity : Simplicity.
Simulty : Private grudge or quarrel; as, domestic simulties.
Sinapoleic : Of or pertaining to mustard oil; specifically, designating an acid of the oleic acid series said to occur in mistard oil.
Sinciput : The fore part of the head.
Sinewed : Fig.: Equipped; strengthened.
Sing : To influence by singing; to lull by singing; as, to sing a child to sleep.
Single : Performed by one person, or one on each side; as, a single combat.
Single-minded : Having a single purpose; hence, artless; guileless; single-hearted.
Singular : Separate or apart from others; single; distinct.
Singularly : So as to express one, or the singular number.
Sinistrous : Being on the left side; inclined to the left; sinistral.
Sink : To reduce or extinguish by payment; as, to sink the national debt.
Sinopite : A brickred ferruginous clay used by the ancients for red paint.
Sinuosity : A bend, or a series of bends and turns; a winding, or a series of windings; a wave line; a curve.
Sip : To draw into the mouth; to suck up; as, a bee sips nectar from the flowers.
Siphonal : Of or pertaining to a siphon; resembling a siphon.
Siphonophore : One of the Siphonophora.
Sipunculoid : Pertaining to the Sipunculoidea.
Sire : The male parent of a beast; -- applied especially to horses; as, the horse had a good sire.
Sirkeer : Any one of several species of Asiatic cuckoos of the genus Taccocua, as the Bengal sirkeer (T. sirkee).
Siscowet : A large, fat variety of the namaycush found in Lake Superior; -- called also siskawet, siskiwit.
Sister : One of the same kind, or of the same condition; -- generally used adjectively; as, sister fruits.
Sit : To perch; to rest with the feet drawn up, as birds do on a branch, pole, etc.
Sith : Alt. of Sithe
Sitting : The act or time of sitting, as to a portrait painter, photographer, etc.
Six : One more than five; twice three; as, six yards.
Sixth : First after the fifth; next in order after the fifth.
Size : A thin, weak glue used in various trades, as in painting, bookbinding, paper making, etc.
Sized : Having a particular size or magnitude; -- chiefly used in compounds; as, large-sized; common-sized.
Skag : An additional piece fastened to the keel of a boat to prevent lateral motion. See Skeg.
Skean : A knife or short dagger, esp. that in use among the Highlanders of Scotland. [Variously spelt.]
Skeldrake : Alt. of Skieldrake
Skelp : A blow; a smart stroke.
Skerry : A rocky isle; an insulated rock.
Skew : To shape or form in an oblique way; to cause to take an oblique position.
Skiff : A small, light boat.
Skilling : A bay of a barn; also, a slight addition to a cottage.
Skimmer : Any species of longwinged marine birds of the genus Rhynchops, allied to the terns, but having the lower mandible compressed and much longer than the upper one. These birds fly rapidly along the surface of the water, with the lower mandible immersed, thus skimming out small fishes. The American species (R. nigra) is common on the southern coasts of the United States. Called also scissorbill, and shearbill.
Skinning : of Skin
Skinker : One who serves liquor; a tapster.
Skip : A passage from one sound to another by more than a degree at once.
Skirling : A small trout or salmon; -- a name used loosely.
Skirt : To cover with a skirt; to surround.
Sklayre : A vell.
Skulk : To hide, or get out of the way, in a sneaking manner; to lie close, or to move in a furtive way; to lurk.
Skunkhead : A duck (Camptolaimus Labradorus) which formerly inhabited the Atlantic coast of New England. It is now supposed to be extinct. Called also Labrador duck, and pied duck.
Skyey : Like the sky; ethereal; being in the sky.
Slabber : Spittle; saliva; slaver.
Slacking : of Slacken
Slade : The sole of a plow.
Slam : To strike down; to slaughter.
Slang : imp. of Sling. Slung.
Slantwise : Alt. of Slantly
Slash : To lash; to ply the whip to.
Slate : An argillaceous rock which readily splits into thin plates; argillite; argillaceous schist.
Slatter : To be careless, negligent, or aswkward, esp. with regard to dress and neatness; to be wasteful.
Slaughtermen : of Slaughterman
Slavered : of Slaver
Slavonic : Of or pertaining to the Slavs, or their language.
Sleaziness : Quality of being sleazy.
Sleek : With ease and dexterity.
Sleep-charged : Heavy with sleep.
Sleepwaker : On in a state of magnetic or mesmeric sleep.
Sleeve : The part of a garment which covers the arm; as, the sleeve of a coat or a gown.
Sleight : Cunning; craft; artful practice.
Slewed : Somewhat drunk.
Slich : Alt. of Slick
Slidderly : Alt. of Sliddery
Slide : That which operates by sliding.
Slight : To overthrow; to demolish.
Slik : Such.
Sliness : See Slyness.
Slunk : of Slink
Slip : To let loose in pursuit of game, as a greyhound.
Slip : An opening or space for vessels to lie in, between wharves or in a dock; as, Peck slip.
Slipperily : In a slippery manner.
Slish : A cut; as, slish and slash.
Sliver : Bait made of pieces of small fish. Cf. Kibblings.
Sloom : Slumber.
Slope : To form with a slope; to give an oblique or slanting direction to; to direct obliquely; to incline; to slant; as, to slope the ground in a garden; to slope a piece of cloth in cutting a garment.
Sloth : Disinclination to action or labor; sluggishness; laziness; idleness.
Slough : The skin, commonly the cast-off skin, of a serpent or of some similar animal.
Slow : Not hasty; not precipitate; acting with deliberation; tardy; inactive.
Slubbing : of Slub
Slue : See Sloough, 2.
Slugger : One who strikes heavy blows; hence, a boxer; a prize fighter.
Slum : A foul back street of a city, especially one filled with a poor, dirty, degraded, and often vicious population; any low neighborhood or dark retreat; -- usually in the plural; as, Westminster slums are haunts for theives.
Slumping : of Slump
Slurred : Marked with a slur; performed in a smooth, gliding style, like notes marked with a slur.
Sly : Artfully cunning; secretly mischievous; wily.
Smack : To make a noise by the separation of the lips after tasting anything.
Smallness : The quality or state of being small.
Smart : Smart money (see below).
Smasher : One who, or that which, smashes or breaks things to pieces.
Smeary : Tending to smear or soil; adhesive; viscous.
Smell : To affect the olfactory nerves; to have an odor or scent; -- often followed by of; as, to smell of smoke, or of musk.
Smeltery : A house or place for smelting.
Smiled : of Smile
Smirch : To smear with something which stains, or makes dirty; to smutch; to begrime; to soil; to sully.
Smite : To put to rout in battle; to overthrow by war.
Smithsonite : Native zinc carbonate. It generally occurs in stalactitic, reniform, or botryoidal shapes, of a white to gray, green, or brown color. See Note under Calamine.
Smoked : of Smoke
Smokestack : A chimney; esp., a pipe serving as a chimney, as the pipe which carries off the smoke of a locomotive, the funnel of a steam vessel, etc.
Smoulder : Smoke; smother.
Smoothing : of Smooth
Smorsato : Growing gradually fainter and softer; dying away; morendo.
Smudge : A suffocating smoke.
Smugness : The quality or state of being smug.
Smutty : Obscene; not modest or pure; as, a smutty saying.
Snaggy : Full of snags; full of short, rough branches or sharp points; abounding with knots.
Snakebird : The wryneck.
Snaky : Of or pertaining to a snake or snakes; resembling a snake; serpentine; winding.
Snap : A greedy fellow.
Snapping : a. & n. from Snap, v.
Snarl : A knot or complication of hair, thread, or the like, difficult to disentangle; entanglement; hence, intricate complication; embarrassing difficulty.
Snatch : The handle of a scythe; a snead.
Sneap : To check; to reprimand; to rebuke; to chide.
Sneer : A smile, grin, or contortion of the face, indicative of contempt; an indirect expression or insinuation of contempt.
Snick : A slight hit or tip of the ball, often unintentional.
Sniff : The act of sniffing; perception by sniffing; that which is taken by sniffing; as, a sniff of air.
Snipped : of Snip
Snip-snap : Quick; short; sharp; smart.
Snobbish : Of or pertaining to a snob; characteristic of, or befitting, a snob; vulgarly pretentious.
Snooze : To doze; to drowse; to take a short nap; to slumber.
Snotter : A rope going over a yardarm, used to bend a tripping line to, in sending down topgallant and royal yards in vessels of war; also, the short line supporting the heel of the sprit in a small boat.
Snowballing : of Snowball
Snowplow : Alt. of Snowplough
Snub-nosed : Having a short, flat nose, slightly turned up; as, the snub-nosed eel.
Snuffling : of Snuffle
Snuggling : of Snuggle
Soak : To cause or suffer to lie in a fluid till the substance has imbibed what it can contain; to macerate in water or other liquid; to steep, as for the purpose of softening or freshening; as, to soak cloth; to soak bread; to soak salt meat, salt fish, or the like.
Soap : To rub or wash over with soap.
Soavemente : Sweetly.
Sober-minded : Having a disposition or temper habitually sober.
Sociable : A gathering of people for social purposes; an informal party or reception; as, a church sociable.
Sociate : An associate.
Sock : A plowshare.
Socratical : Of or pertaining to Socrates, the Grecian sage and teacher. (b. c. 469-399), or to his manner of teaching and philosophizing.
Sodden : To soak; to make heavy with water.
Soft : Not rough, rugged, or harsh to the touch; smooth; delicate; fine; as, soft silk; a soft skin.
Softening : of Soften
Softness : The quality or state of being soft; -- opposed to hardness, and used in the various specific senses of the adjective.
Soiliness : Stain; foulness.
Sol : The sun.
Solan : The common gannet.
Solarize : To become injured by undue or too long exposure to the sun's rays in the camera.
Soldier : The red or cuckoo gurnard (Trigla pini.)
Sole : The bottom of the body of a plow; -- called also slade; also, the bottom of a furrow.
Solemn : Stately; ceremonious; grand.
Solemnize : Solemnization.
Soleplate : The plate forming the back of a waterwheel bucket.
Solicit : To awake or excite to action; to rouse desire in; to summon; to appeal to; to invite.
Solid : Sound; not weakly; as, a solid constitution of body.
Solidity : The state or quality of being solid; density; consistency, -- opposed to fluidity; compactness; fullness of matter, -- opposed to openness or hollowness; strength; soundness, -- opposed to weakness or instability; the primary quality or affection of matter by which its particles exclude or resist all others; hardness; massiveness.
Soliloquy : A written composition, reciting what it is supposed a person says to himself.
Solitary : Not associated with others of the same kind.
Solpugid : One of the Solifugae.
Solute : To absolve; as, to solute sin.
Solvency : The quality or state of being solvent.
Somatology : The doctrine or the science of the general properties of material substances; somatics.
-some : An adjective suffix having primarily the sense of like or same, and indicating a considerable degree of the thing or quality denoted in the first part of the compound; as in mettlesome, full of mettle or spirit; gladsome, full of gladness; winsome, blithesome, etc.
Sometime : At one time or other hereafter; as, I will do it sometime.
Somnambulic : Somnambulistic.
Somnolence : Alt. of Somnolency
Sonant : Uttered, as an element of speech, with tone or proper vocal sound, as distinguished from mere breath sound; intonated; voiced; tonic; the opposite of nonvocal, or surd; -- sid of the vowels, semivowels, liquids, and nasals, and particularly of the consonants b, d, g hard, v, etc., as compared with their cognates p, t, k, f, etc., which are called nonvocal, surd, or aspirate.
Songster : A singing bird.
Sonorific : Producing sound; as, the sonorific quality of a body.
Soon : Speedy; quick.
Soothing : of Soothe
Sootish : Sooty.
Sophist : Hence, an impostor in argument; a captious or fallacious reasoner.
Sophta : See Softa.
Sorance : Soreness.
Sorcery : Divination by the assistance, or supposed assistance, of evil spirits, or the power of commanding evil spirits; magic; necromancy; witchcraft; enchantment.
Sore : In a sore manner; with pain; grievously.
Sorgo : Indian millet and its varieties. See Sorghum.
Sorrow : The uneasiness or pain of mind which is produced by the loss of any good, real or supposed, or by diseappointment in the expectation of good; grief at having suffered or occasioned evil; regret; unhappiness; sadness.
Sorted : of Sort
Sortition : Selection or appointment by lot.
Sotadean : Sotadic.
Soubah : See Subah.
Soul : Sole.
Sound : Free from error; correct; right; honest; true; faithful; orthodox; -- said of persons; as, a sound lawyer; a sound thinker.
Sound : To causse to make a noise; to play on; as, to sound a trumpet or a horn.
Soundless : Having no sound; noiseless; silent.
Sour : To make unhappy, uneasy, or less agreeable.
Souse : A corrupt form of Sou.
Souterly : Of or pertaining to a cobbler or cobblers; like a cobbler; hence, vulgar; low.
Southeastern : Of or pertaining to the southeast; southeasterly.
Southness : A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point toward the south pole.
Sovenaunce : Remembrance.
Sow : A mass of solidified metal in a furnace hearth; a salamander.
Sowl : See Soul, v. i.
Space : A short time; a while.
Spade : One of that suit of cards each of which bears one or more figures resembling a spade.
Spado : Same as Spade, 2.
Spaky : Specky.
Span : A pair of horses or other animals driven together; usually, such a pair of horses when similar in color, form, and action.
Spang : To spring; to bound; to leap.
Spanking : of Spank
Spanworm : The larva of any geometrid moth, as the cankeworm; a geometer; a measuring worm.
Sparagrass : Obs. or corrupt forms of Asparagus.
Spare : An opening in a petticoat or gown; a placket.
Spark : To sparkle.
Sparkliness : Vivacity.
Sparseness : The quality or state of being sparse; as, sparseness of population.
Spat : imp. of Spit.
Spathed : Having a spathe or calyx like a sheath.
Spattle : A spatula.
Spawn : To issue, as offspring; -- used contemptuously.
Speak : To utter a speech, discourse, or harangue; to adress a public assembly formally.
Spear : A long, pointed weapon, used in war and hunting, by thrusting or throwing; a weapon with a long shaft and a sharp head or blade; a lance.
Spece : Species; kind.
Specialize : To supply with an organ or organs having a special function or functions.
Specific : Of or pertaining to a species; characterizing or constituting a species; possessing the peculiar property or properties of a thing which constitute its species, and distinguish it from other things; as, the specific form of an animal or a plant; the specific qualities of a drug; the specific distinction between virtue and vice.
Speciosity : That which is specious.
Spectacle : Something exhibited to view; usually, something presented to view as extraordinary, or as unusual and worthy of special notice; a remarkable or noteworthy sight; a show; a pageant; a gazingstock.
Spectre : A stick insect.
Specular : Of or pertaining to a speculum; conducted with the aid of a speculum; as, a specular examination.
Speculative : Involving, or formed by, speculation; ideal; theoretical; not established by demonstration.
Speech : A particular language, as distinct from others; a tongue; a dialect.
Speeded : of Speed
Speedy : Not dilatory or slow; quick; swift; nimble; hasty; rapid in motion or performance; as, a speedy flight; on speedy foot.
Spell : One of two or more persons or gangs who work by spells.
Spelling : Of or pertaining to spelling.
Spend : To exhaust of force or strength; to waste; to wear away; as, the violence of the waves was spent.
Spere : A sphere.
Spermo- : Combining forms from Gr. spe`rma, -atos, seed, sperm, semen (of plants or animals); as, spermatoblast, spermoblast.
Spermatozoon : Same as Spermatozoid.
Sperrylite : An arsenide of platinum occuring in grains and minute isometric crystals of tin-white color. It is found near Sudbury, Ontario Canada, and is the only known compound of platinum occuring in nature.
Sphacelate : To affect with gangrene.
Sphenodon : Same as Hatteria.
Sphere : In ancient astronomy, one of the concentric and eccentric revolving spherical transparent shells in which the stars, sun, planets, and moon were supposed to be set, and by which they were carried, in such a manner as to produce their apparent motions.
Spheroidal : Having the form of a spheroid.
Sphingid : Of or pertaining to a sphinx, or the family Sphingidae.
Spica : A star of the first magnitude situated in the constellation Virgo.
Spiciform : Spike-shaped.
Spiculispongiae : A division of sponges including those which have independent siliceous spicules.
Spight : A woodpecker. See Speight.
Spikelet : A small or secondary spike; especially, one of the ultimate parts of the in florescence of grasses. See Illust. of Quaking grass.
Spilling : of Spill
Spilth : Anything spilt, or freely poured out; slop; effusion.
Spinal : Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the backbone, or vertebral column; rachidian; vertebral.
Spindleshanks : A person with slender shanks, or legs; -- used humorously or in contempt.
Spinet : A keyed instrument of music resembling a harpsichord, but smaller, with one string of brass or steel wire to each note, sounded by means of leather or quill plectrums or jacks. It was formerly much used.
Spinneys : of Spinney
Spinulose : Alt. of Spinulous
Spirality : The quality or states of being spiral.
Spiring : Shooting up in a spire or spires.
Spirit : To convey rapidly and secretly, or mysteriously, as if by the agency of a spirit; to kidnap; -- often with away, or off.
Spiritualism : The quality or state of being spiritual.
Spiritual-minded : Having the mind set on spiritual things, or filled with holy desires and affections.
Spirt : Same as Spurt.
Spit : To eject from the mouth; to throw out, as saliva or other matter, from the mouth.
Spiteful : Filled with, or showing, spite; having a desire to vex, annoy, or injure; malignant; malicious; as, a spiteful person or act.
Spitz : A breed of dogs having erect ears and long silky hair, usually white; -- called also Pomeranian dog, and louploup.
Splasher : One of the guarde over the wheels, as of a carriage, locomotive, etc.
Spleen : A fit of anger; choler.
Splendid : Showy; magnificent; sumptuous; pompous; as, a splendid palace; a splendid procession or pageant.
Splenical : Splenic.
Splice : To unite in marrige.
Splinter : A thin piece split or rent off lengthwise, as from wood, bone, or other solid substance; a thin piece; a sliver; as, splinters of a ship's mast rent off by a shot.
Split : A division of a stake happening when two cards of the kind on which the stake is laid are dealt in the same turn.
Spodomantic : Relating to spodomancy, or divination by means of ashes.
Spoiler : One who corrupts, mars, or renders useless.
Spoliating : of Spoliate
Sponge : One who lives upon others; a pertinaceous and indolent dependent; a parasite; a sponger.
Sponger : Fig.: A parasitical dependent; a hanger-on.
Sponsal : Relating to marriage, or to a spouse; spousal.
Spook : A spirit; a ghost; an apparition; a hobgoblin.
Spooney : Weak-minded; demonstratively fond; as, spooney lovers.
Sporangia : of Sporangium
Sporophore : That alternately produced form of certain cryptogamous plants, as ferns, mosses, and the like, which is nonsexual, but produces spores in countless numbers. In ferns it is the leafy plant, in mosses the capsule. Cf. Oophore.
Sport : To divert; to amuse; to make merry; -- used with the reciprocal pronoun.
Sportule : A charitable gift or contribution; a gift; an alms; a dole; a largess; a sportula.
Spottedness : State or quality of being spotted.
Spout : To utter a speech, especially in a pompous manner.
Sprain : To weaken, as a joint, ligament, or muscle, by sudden and excessive exertion, as by wrenching; to overstrain, or stretch injuriously, but without luxation; as, to sprain one's ankle.
Spray : To throw spray upon; to treat with a liquid in the form of spray; as, to spray a wound, or a surgical instrument, with carbolic acid.
Spread : An unlimited expanse of discontinuous points.
Sprigged : Having sprigs.
Spring : To bend from a straight direction or plane surface; to become warped; as, a piece of timber, or a plank, sometimes springs in seasoning.
Spring : A shoot; a plant; a young tree; also, a grove of trees; woodland.
Springer : The rib of a groined vault, as being the solid abutment for each section of vaulting.
Sprinkle : To baptize by the application of a few drops, or a small quantity, of water; hence, to cleanse; to purify.
Sprite : A spirit; a soul; a shade; also, an apparition. See Spright.
Spruce : Any coniferous tree of the genus Picea, as the Norway spruce (P. excelsa), and the white and black spruces of America (P. alba and P. nigra), besides several others in the far Northwest. See Picea.
Spruntly : In a sprunt manner; smartly; vigorously; youthfully.
Spumous : Alt. of Spumy
Spur : Ergotized rye or other grain.
Spurling-line : The line which forms the communication between the steering wheel and the telltale.
Spurt : To gush or issue suddenly or violently out in a stream, as liquor from a cask; to rush from a confined place in a small stream or jet; to spirt.
Sputter : To throw out anything, as little jets of steam, with a noise like that made by one sputtering.
Squab : Fat; thick; plump; bulky.
Squad : A small party of men assembled for drill, inspection, or other purposes.
Squally : Abounding with squalls; disturbed often with sudden and violent gusts of wind; gusty; as, squally weather.
Squamigerous : Bearing scales.
Squander : To spend lavishly or profusely; to spend prodigally or wastefully; to use without economy or judgment; to dissipate; as, to squander an estate.
Square : The position of planets distant ninety degrees from each other; a quadrate.
Square : To place at right angles with the keel; as, to square the yards.
Squash : A plant and its fruit of the genus Cucurbita, or gourd kind.
Squat : A sudden or crushing fall.
Squeak : To break silence or secrecy for fear of pain or punishment; to speak; to confess.
Squeezing : of Squeeze
Squib : A sarcastic speech or publication; a petty lampoon; a brief, witty essay.
Squilla : Any one of numerous stomapod crustaceans of the genus Squilla and allied genera. They make burrows in mud or beneath stones on the seashore. Called also mantis shrimp. See Illust. under Stomapoda.
Squint-eye : An eye that squints.
Squireen : One who is half squire and half farmer; -- used humorously.
Squitch : Quitch grass.
Stable : Firmly established; not easily moved, shaken, or overthrown; fixed; as, a stable government.
Stabulation : A place for lodging beasts; a stable.
Stacte : One of the sweet spices used by the ancient Jews in the preparation of incense. It was perhaps an oil or other form of myrrh or cinnamon, or a kind of storax.
Staffs : of Staff
Stag : An outside irregular dealer in stocks, who is not a member of the exchange.
Stagecoachman : One who drives a stagecoach.
Stagger : An unsteady movement of the body in walking or standing, as if one were about to fall; a reeling motion; vertigo; -- often in the plural; as, the stagger of a drunken man.
Stagnate : To cease to be brisk or active; to become dull or inactive; as, commerce stagnates; business stagnates.
Stain : To give or receive a stain; to grow dim.
Stake : A small anvil usually furnished with a tang to enter a hole in a bench top, -- used by tinsmiths, blacksmiths, etc., for light work, punching upon, etc.
Stalactitic : Alt. of Stalactitical
Stale : A stalking-horse.
Stalk : To walk behind something as a screen, for the purpose of approaching game; to proceed under clover.
Stalling : of Stall
Stallion : A male horse not castrated; a male horse kept for breeding.
Staminate : Furnished with stamens; producing stamens.
Stammering : Apt to stammer; hesitating in speech; stuttering.
Stamp : An instrument for cutting out, or shaping, materials, as paper, leather, etc., by a downward pressure.
Stanch : A flood gate by which water is accumulated, for floating a boat over a shallow part of a stream by its release.
Stand : To cease from progress; not to proceed; to stop; to pause; to halt; to remain stationary.
Stand : A halt or stop for the purpose of defense, resistance, or opposition; as, to come to, or to make, a stand.
Standard : The sheth of a plow.
Standing : Not movable; fixed; as, a standing bed (distinguished from a trundle-bed).
Stank : Stunk.
Stant : Alt. of Stont
Staple : The principal constituent in anything; chief item.
Star : Specifically, a radiated mark in writing or printing; an asterisk [thus, *]; -- used as a reference to a note, or to fill a blank where something is omitted, etc.
Starched : Stiff; precise; formal.
Starfish : Any one of numerous species of echinoderms belonging to the class Asterioidea, in which the body is star-shaped and usually has five rays, though the number of rays varies from five to forty or more. The rays are often long, but are sometimes so short as to appear only as angles to the disklike body. Called also sea star, five-finger, and stellerid.
Starlike : Shining; bright; illustrious.
Starshoot : See Nostoc.
Start : The curved or inclined front and bottom of a water-wheel bucket.
Start-up : Upstart.
Statable : That can be stated; as, a statablegrievance; the question at issue is statable.
State : Stately.
Statement : That which is stated; a formal embodiment in language of facts or opinions; a narrative; a recital.
Statical : Resting; acting by mere weight without motion; as, statical pressure; static objects.
Station : A church in which the procession of the clergy halts on stated days to say stated prayers.
Statistical : Of or pertaining to statistics; as, statistical knowledge, statistical tabulation.
Statued : Adorned with statues.
Staunchly : Alt. of Staunchness
Staves : pl. of Staff.
Stay : To continue in a state.
Stayless : Without stop or delay.
Steady : Regular; constant; undeviating; uniform; as, the steady course of the sun; a steady breeze of wind.
Stealing : That which is stolen; stolen property; -- chiefly used in the plural.
Steam : To expose to the action of steam; to apply steam to for softening, dressing, or preparing; as, to steam wood; to steamcloth; to steam food, etc.
Stearone : The ketone of stearic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, (C17H35)2.CO, by the distillation of calcium stearate.
Steel : A weapon, as a sword, dagger, etc.
Steelyard : A form of balance in which the body to be weighed is suspended from the shorter arm of a lever, which turns on a fulcrum, and a counterpoise is caused to slide upon the longer arm to produce equilibrium, its place upon this arm (which is notched or graduated) indicating the weight; a Roman balance; -- very commonly used also in the plural form, steelyards.
Steep : A precipitous place, hill, mountain, rock, or ascent; any elevated object sloping with a large angle to the plane of the horizon; a precipice.
Steered : of Steer
Steersmen : of Steersman
Stegnotic : Tending to render costive, or to diminish excretions or discharges generally.
Stell : A partial inclosure made by a wall or trees, to serve as a shelter for sheep or cattle.
Stellular : Marked with starlike spots of color.
Stem : To remove the stem or stems from; as, to stem cherries; to remove the stem and its appendages (ribs and veins) from; as, to stem tobacco leaves.
Stench : A smell; an odor.
Stenographist : A stenographer.
Stepping : of Step
Step : A change of position effected by a motion of translation.
Stepsister : A daughter of one's stepfather or stepmother by a former marriage.
Stere : Helmsman. See 6th Steer.
Stereometrical : Of or pertaining to stereometry; performed or obtained by stereometry.
Stereotyped : Formed into, or printed from, stereotype plates.
Sterilize : To make sterile or unproductive; to impoverish, as land; to exhaust of fertility.
Sternebrae : of Sternebra
Sternum : A plate of cartilage, or a series of bony or cartilaginous plates or segments, in the median line of the pectoral skeleton of most vertebrates above fishes; the breastbone.
Stetting : of Stet
Stew : To be seethed or cooked in a slow, gentle manner, or in heat and moisture.
Stewpot : A pot used for stewing.
Stich : A row, line, or rank of trees.
Stick : To fasten, attach, or cause to remain, by thrusting in; hence, also, to adorn or deck with things fastened on as by piercing; as, to stick a pin on the sleeve.
Stickful : As much set type as fills a composing stick.
Sticky : Having the quality of sticking to a surface; adhesive; gluey; viscous; viscid; glutinous; tenacious.
Stiff-hearted : Obstinate; stubborn; contumacious.
Stigma : A mark made with a burning iron; a brand.
Stigmatist : One believed to be supernaturally impressed with the marks of Christ's wounds. See Stigma, 8.
Stiletto : A kind of dagger with a slender, rounded, and pointed blade.
Stilled : of Still
Stiller : One who stills, or quiets.
Stilting : of Stilt
Stimulatress : A woman who stimulates.
Stinger : One who, or that which, stings.
Stinker : Any one of the several species of large antarctic petrels which feed on blubber and carrion and have an offensive odor, as the giant fulmar.
Stint : Quantity or task assigned; proportion allotted.
Stipes : The second joint of a maxilla of an insect or a crustacean.
Stipulated : of Stipulate
Stir : The act or result of stirring; agitation; tumult; bustle; noise or various movements.
Stirte : imp. of Start, v. i. & t.
Stith : Strong; stiff; rigid.
Stock : A block of wood; something fixed and solid; a pillar; a firm support; a post.
Stock : The frame or timbers on which a ship rests while building.
Stock-blind : Blind as a stock; wholly blind.
Stocky : Headstrong.
Stoke : To poke or stir up, as a fire; hence, to tend, as the fire of a furnace, boiler, etc.
Stomata : of Stoma
Stomachful : Willfully obstinate; stubborn; perverse.
Stomatode : One of the Stomatoda.
Stone : One of the testes; a testicle.
Stonechat : The blue titmouse.
Stone-still : As still as a stone.
Stool : A seat used in evacuating the bowels; hence, an evacuation; a discharge from the bowels.
Stoop : To cause to submit; to prostrate.
Stop : To cease from any motion, or course of action.
Stopen : Stepped; gone; advanced.
Stopple : To close the mouth of anything with a stopple, or as with a stopple.
Storekeeper : A man in charge of stores or goods of any kind; as, a naval storekeeper.
Storming : of Storm
Storthing : The Parliament of Norway, chosen by indirect election once in three years, but holding annual sessions.
Stote : See Stoat.
Stoutness : The state or quality of being stout.
Stowage : Money paid for stowing goods.
Straddling : Applied to spokes when they are arranged alternately in two circles in the hub. See Straddle, v. i., and Straddle, v. t., 3.
Straight : Composed of cards which constitute a regular sequence, as the ace, king, queen, jack, and ten-spot; as, a straight hand; a straight flush.
Straight-joint : In the United States, applied to planking or flooring put together without the tongue and groove, the pieces being laid edge to edge.
Strain : To stretch beyond its proper limit; to do violence to, in the matter of intent or meaning; as, to strain the law in order to convict an accused person.
Strainer : One who strains.
Straiten : To make strait; to make narrow; hence, to contract; to confine.
Stramash : To strike, beat, or bang; to break; to destroy.
Strange : Backward; slow.
Strangle : To stifle, choke, or suffocate in any manner.
Strap : A piece of rope or metal passing around a block and used for fastening it to anything.
Stratagem : An artifice or trick in war for deceiving the enemy; hence, in general, artifice; deceptive device; secret plot; evil machination.
Stratiform : Having the form of strata.
Straught : imp. & p. p. of Stretch.
Stray : Any domestic animal that has an inclosure, or its proper place and company, and wanders at large, or is lost; an estray. Used also figuratively.
Stream : Current; drift; tendency; series of tending or moving causes; as, the stream of opinions or manners.
Streamy : Abounding with streams, or with running water; streamful.
Strengest : the original compar. & superl. of Strong.
Strengthing : A stronghold.
Streptothrix : A genus of bacilli occurring of the form of long, smooth and apparently branched threads, either straight or twisted.
Stretch : To strain the truth; to exaggerate; as, a man apt to stretch in his report of facts.
Strewed : of Strew
Striatum : The corpus striatum.
Striction : The act of constricting, or the state of being constricted.
Stridor : A harsh, shrill, or creaking noise.
Strigose : Set with stiff, straight bristles; hispid; as, a strigose leaf.
Strike : To make and ratify; as, to strike a bargain.
Strike : To become attached to something; -- said of the spat of oysters.
String : A small cord, a line, a twine, or a slender strip of leather, or other substance, used for binding together, fastening, or tying things; a cord, larger than a thread and smaller than a rope; as, a shoe string; a bonnet string; a silken string.
String : To deprive of strings; to strip the strings from; as, to string beans. See String, n., 9.
Stripped : of Strip
Stripe : A pattern produced by arranging the warp threads in sets of alternating colors, or in sets presenting some other contrast of appearance.
Strove : of Strive
Strobile : A scaly multiple fruit resulting from the ripening of an ament in certain plants, as the hop or pine; a cone. See Cone, n., 3.
Stroke : The rate of succession of stroke; as, a quick stroke.
Strolled : of Stroll
Strong : Having passive physical power; having ability to bear or endure; firm; hale; sound; robust; as, a strong constitution; strong health.
Stronghold : A fastness; a fort or fortress; fortfield place; a place of security.
Stropped : of Strop
Strow : Same as Strew.
Struggle : To use great efforts; to labor hard; to strive; to contend forcibly; as, to struggle to save one's life; to struggle with the waves; to struggle with adversity.
Strumpet : To dishonor with the reputation of being a strumpet; hence, to belie; to slander.
Struthiones : In a wider sense, an extensive group of birds including the ostriches, cassowaries, emus, moas, and allied birds incapable of flight. In this sense it is equivalent to Ratitae, or Dromaeognathae.
Stub : To grub up by the roots; to extirpate; as, to stub up edible roots.
Stuccoing : of Stucco
Studbook : A genealogical register of a particular breed or stud of horses, esp. thoroughbreds.
Studious : Earnest in endeavors; aiming sedulously; attentive; observant; diligent; -- usually followed by an infinitive or by of; as, be studious to please; studious to find new friends and allies.
Stuff : Material which is to be worked up in any process of manufacture.
Stuffer : One who, or that which, stuffs.
Stultiloquent : Given to, or characterized by, silly talk; babbling.
Stumblingly : In a stumbling manner.
Stumper : A boastful person.
Stunting : of Stunt
Stupefied : of Stupefy
Sturdy : Foolishly obstinate or resolute; stubborn; unrelenting; unfeeling; stern.
Stutterer : One who stutters; a stammerer.
Style : An instrument used by the ancients in writing on tablets covered with wax, having one of its ends sharp, and the other blunt, and somewhat expanded, for the purpose of making erasures by smoothing the wax.
Styliferous : Bearing one or more styles.
Stylometer : An instrument for measuring columns.
Styrol : See Styrolene.
Suavify : To make affable or suave.
Subagitation : Unlawful sexual intercourse.
Subapical : Being under the apex; of or pertaining to the part just below the apex.
Sub-base : The lowest member of a base when divided horizontally, or of a baseboard, pedestal, or the like.
Subclass : One of the natural groups, more important than an order, into which some classes are divided; as, the angiospermous subclass of exogens.
Subcontrary : A subcontrary proposition; a proposition inferior or contrary in a lower degree.
Subdean : An under dean; the deputy or substitute of a dean.
Subdividing : of Subdivide
Subdue : To destroy the force of; to overcome; as, medicines subdue a fever.
Subepithelial : Situated under the epithelium.
Subglacial : Pertaining or belonging to the under side of a glacier; being beneath a glacier; as, subglacial streams.
Subindication : The act of indicating by signs; a slight indication.
Subject : That which is subjected, or submitted to, any physical operation or process; specifically (Anat.), a dead body used for the purpose of dissection.
Subjectist : One skilled in subjective philosophy; a subjectivist.
Subjugator : One who subjugates; a conqueror.
Sublieutenant : An inferior or second lieutenant; in the British service, a commissioned officer of the lowest rank.
Sublime : That which is sublime; -- with the definite article
Sublingual : Situated under the tongue; as, the sublingual gland.
Submenta : of Submentum
Submission : The act of submitting; the act of yielding to power or authority; surrender of the person and power to the control or government of another; obedience; compliance.
Submucous : Situated under a mucous membrane.
Subopercular : Situated below the operculum; pertaining to the suboperculum.
Subordination : The quality or state of being subordinate or inferior to an other; inferiority of rank or dignity; subjection.
Subperiosteal : Situated under the periosteum.
Subquinquefid : Almost quinquefid; nearly quinquefid.
Subscribable : Capable of being subscribed.
Subscription : That which is subscribed.
Subsequent : Following in order of place; succeeding; as, a subsequent clause in a treaty.
Subsidiarily : In a subsidiary manner; so as to assist.
Subsist : To continue; to retain a certain state.
Substance : The most important element in any existence; the characteristic and essential components of anything; the main part; essential import; purport.
Substantiating : of Substantiate
Substituting : of Substitute
Substrate : To strew or lay under anything.
Subtangent : The part of the axis contained between the ordinate and tangent drawn to the same point in a curve.
Subterrany : A subterranean place.
Subtilizer : One who subtilizes.
Subtorrid : Nearly torrid.
Subtriple : Containing a third, or one part to three.
Suburban : Of or pertaining to suburbs; inhabiting, or being in, the suburbs of a city.
Subventitious : Helping; aiding; supporting.
Succade : A sweetmeat.
Succeeding : The act of one who, or that which, succeeds; also, that which succeeds, or follows after; consequence.
Successless : Having no success.
Succoring : of Succor
Succulent : Full of juice; juicy.
Sucked : of Suck
Sucker : A pipe through which anything is drawn.
Suckled : of Suckle
Sudary : A napkin or handkerchief.
Suds : Water impregnated with soap, esp. when worked up into bubbles and froth.
Suffer : To feel, or endure, with pain, annoyance, etc.; to submit to with distress or grief; to undergo; as, to suffer pain of body, or grief of mind.
Sufficing : of Suffice
Suffixed : of Suffix
Suffragan : An assistant.
Suffrance : Sufferance.
Sugar : By extension, anything resembling sugar in taste or appearance; as, sugar of lead (lead acetate), a poisonous white crystalline substance having a sweet taste.
Suggest : To introduce indirectly to the thoughts; to cause to be thought of, usually by the agency of other objects.
Suicide : Ruin of one's own interests.
Suit : One of the four sets of cards which constitute a pack; -- each set consisting of thirteen cards bearing a particular emblem, as hearts, spades, cubs, or diamonds.
Suji : Indian wheat, granulated but not pulverized; a kind of semolina.
Sullage : That which sullies or defiles.
Sulphacid : An acid in which, to a greater or less extent, sulphur plays a part analogous to that of oxygen in an oxyacid; thus, thiosulphuric and sulpharsenic acids are sulphacids; -- called also sulphoacid. See the Note under Acid, n., 2.
Sulphindigotic : Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphonic acid obtained, as a blue solution, by dissolving indigo in sulphuric acid; -- formerly called also cerulic sulphuric acid, but properly called indigo-disulphonic acid.
Sulphophosphate : A salt of sulphophosphoric acid.
Sulphureous : Consisting of sulphur; having the qualities of sulphur, or brimstone; impregnated with sulphur.
Sultanate : The rule or dominion of a sultan; sultanship.
Sum : To have (the feathers) full grown; to furnish with complete, or full-grown, plumage.
Summering : of Summer
Summoned : of Summon
Sumpter : A pack; a burden.
Sunbonnet : A bonnet, generally made of some thin or light fabric, projecting beyond the face, and commonly having a cape, -- worn by women as a protection against the sun.
Sundial : An instrument to show the time of day by means of the shadow of a gnomon, or style, on a plate.
Sunglass : A convex lens of glass for producing heat by converging the sun's rays into a focus.
Sunrising : The first appearance of the sun above the horizon in the morning; more generally, the time of such appearance, whether in fair or cloudy weather; as, to begin work at sunrise.
Sunup : Sunrise.
Superadding : of Superadd
Supercarpal : Situated above, or in the upper part of, the carpus.
Superdominant : The sixth tone of the scale; that next above the dominant; -- called also submediant.
Superexcrescence : Something growing superfluously.
Superfine : Very fine, or most fine; being of surpassing fineness; of extra nice or fine quality; as, superfine cloth.
Superheat : The increase of temperature communicated to steam by superheating it.
Superintellectual : Being above intellect.
Superior : The head of a monastery, convent, abbey, or the like.
Supernaculum : A kind of mock Latin term intended to mean, upon the nail; -- used formerly by topers.
Supernumerary : A person or thing beyond what is necessary or usual; especially, a person employed not for regular service, but only to fill the place of another in case of need; specifically, in theaters, a person who is not a regular actor, but is employed to appear in a stage spectacle.
Superposition : The act of superposing, or the state of being superposed; as, the superposition of rocks; the superposition of one plane figure on another, in geometry.
Superscription : That part of a prescription which contains the Latin word recipe (Take) or the sign /.
Supersphenoidal : Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the body of the sphenoid bone.
Superstructure : all that part of a building above the basement. Also used figuratively.
Supervisal : Supervision.
Supinity : Supineness.
Supplant : To overthrow, undermine, or force away, in order to get a substitute in place of.
Supplement : To fill up or supply by addition; to add something to.
Supplicating : of Supplicate
Supply : Auxiliary troops or reenforcements.
Support : That which upholds, sustains, or keeps from falling, as a prop, a pillar, or a foundation of any kind.
Suppose : To require to exist or to be true; to imply by the laws of thought or of nature; as, purpose supposes foresight.
Suppress : To retain without disclosure; to conceal; not to reveal; to prevent publication of; as, to suppress evidence; to suppress a pamphlet; to suppress the truth.
Suppute : To reckon; to compute; to suppose; to impute.
Supra-esophagal : Alt. of Supra-esophageal
Supramaxillary : Of or pertaining to the upper jaw.
Suprasphenoidal : Situated above the sphenoidal bone; as, the suprasphenoidal appendage, or pituitary body.
Supremity : Supremacy.
Surbedding : of Surbed
Surcingled : Bound with the surcingle.
Sure : Certainly knowing and believing; confident beyond doubt; implicity trusting; unquestioning; positive.
Surety : To act as surety for.
Surfeiting : of Surfeit
Surge : To let go or slacken suddenly, as a rope; as, to surge a hawser or messenger; also, to slacken the rope about (a capstan).
Surly : Arrogant; haughty.
Surmounted : Partly covered by another charge; -- said of an ordinary or other bearing.
Surplus : That which remains when use or need is satisfied, or when a limit is reached; excess; overplus.
Surquedous : Alt. of Surquedrous
Surrender : The delivery up of fugitives from justice by one government to another, as by a foreign state. See Extradition.
Surround : To inclose, as a body of troops, between hostile forces, so as to cut off means of communication or retreat; to invest, as a city.
Survening : of Survene
Surveyor : In the United States, an officer whose duties include the various measures to be taken for ascertaining the quantity, condition, and value of merchandise brought into a port.
Susceptibilities : of Susceptibility
Suspect : Suspicion.
Suspend : To make to depend; as, God hath suspended the promise of eternal life on the condition of obedience and holiness of life.
Suspension : Of decision, determination, judgment, etc.; as, to ask a suspension of judgment or opinion in view of evidence to be produced.
Suspicable : Liable to suspicion; suspicious.
Sustain : To endure without failing or yielding; to bear up under; as, to sustain defeat and disappointment.
Sustres : of Sustre
Suttee : The act of burning a widow on the funeral pile of her husband.
Swa : So.
Swaddle : To bind as with a bandage; to bind or warp tightly with clothes; to swathe; -- used esp. of infants; as, to swaddle a baby.
Swaggering : of Swagger
Swallow : Any one of numerous species of swifts which resemble the true swallows in form and habits, as the common American chimney swallow, or swift.
Swallowfish : The European sapphirine gurnard (Trigla hirundo). It has large pectoral fins.
Swampy : Consisting of swamp; like a swamp; low, wet, and spongy; as, swampy land.
Swanskin : A species of soft flannel, thick and warm.
Swardy : Covered with sward or grass.
Swart : Gloomy; malignant.
Swashed : of Swash
Swath : A line of grass or grain cut and thrown together by the scythe in mowing or cradling.
Sway : Influence, weight, or authority that inclines to one side; as, the sway of desires.
Swear : To utter or affirm with a solemn appeal to God for the truth of the declaration; to make (a promise, threat, or resolve) under oath.
Sweat : Moisture issuing from any substance; as, the sweat of hay or grain in a mow or stack.
Swedish : The language of Swedes.
Sweep : Direction or departure of a curve, a road, an arch, or the like, away from a rectlinear line.
Sweepy : Moving with a sweeping motion.
Sweetened : of Sweeten
Sweetmeat : Fruit preserved with sugar, as peaches, pears, melons, nuts, orange peel, etc.; -- usually in the plural; a confect; a confection.
Swell : To rise or be driven into waves or billows; to heave; as, in tempest, the ocean swells into waves.
Swell : A wave, or billow; especially, a succession of large waves; the roll of the sea after a storm; as, a heavy swell sets into the harbor.
Swelter : To exude, like sweat.
Swift : The current of a stream.
Swig : To castrate, as a ram, by binding the testicles tightly with a string, so that they mortify and slough off.
Swim : To be filled with swimming animals.
Swinck : See Swink.
Swang : of Swing
Swinge : To beat soundly; to whip; to chastise; to punish.
Swingletail : The thrasher, or fox shark. See Thrasher.
Swipe : To give a swipe to; to strike forcibly with a sweeping motion, as a ball.
Switching : of Switch
Swizzle : Ale and beer mixed; also, drink generally.
Swoopstake : See Sweepstake.
Swordplay : Fencing; a sword fight.
Syb : See Sib.
Sycophancy : False accusation; calumniation; talebearing.
Syenitic : Relating to, or like, syenite; as, syenitic granite.
Syllabism : The expressing of the sounds of a language by syllables, rather than by an alphabet or by signs for words.
Syllogization : A reasoning by syllogisms.
Sylvate : A salt of sylvic acid.
Symbolic : See Symbolics.
Symbolize : To make representative of something; to regard or treat as symbolic.
Symmetrize : To make proportional in its parts; to reduce to symmetry.
Sympathies : of Sympathy
Symphony : "An elaborate instrumental composition for a full orchestra, consisting usually, like the sonata, of three or four contrasted yet inwardly related movements, as the allegro, the adagio, the minuet and trio, or scherzo, and the finale in quick time. The term has recently been applied to large orchestral works in freer form, with arguments or programmes to explain their meaning, such as the ""symphonic poems"" of Liszt. The term was formerly applied to any composition for an orchestra, as overtures, etc., and still earlier, to certain compositions partly vocal, partly instrumental."
Symposiarch : The master of a feast.
Synagogue : The council of, probably, 120 members among the Jews, first appointed after the return from the Babylonish captivity; -- called also the Great Synagogue, and sometimes, though erroneously, the Sanhedrin.
Synarthroses : of Synarthrosis
Synchronization : The act of synchronizing; concurrence of events in respect to time.
Syncopating : of Syncopate
Syncytium : Tissue in which the cell or partition walls are wholly wanting and the cell bodies fused together, so that the tissue consists of a continuous mass of protoplasm in which nuclei are imbedded, as in ordinary striped muscle.
Syne : Late, -- as opposed to soon.
Syngenesia : A Linnaean class of plants in which the stamens are united by the anthers.
Synodic : Alt. of Synodical
Synonymize : To express by a synonym or synonyms; to give the synonym or synonyms corresponding to.
Syntactic : Alt. of Syntactical
Synthetical : Comprising within itself structural or other characters which are usually found only in two or more diverse groups; -- said of species, genera, and higher groups. See the Note under Comprehensive, 3.
Syren : See Siren.
Syringes : of Syrinx
System : An assemblage of parts or organs, either in animal or plant, essential to the performance of some particular function or functions which as a rule are of greater complexity than those manifested by a single organ; as, the capillary system, the muscular system, the digestive system, etc.; hence, the whole body as a functional unity.
Systemized : of Systemize
Syzygy : The immovable union of two joints of a crinoidal arm.
Tabby : A brindled cat; hence, popularly, any cat.
Tabernacle : A niche for the image of a saint, or for any sacred painting or sculpture.
Tablature : An ancient mode of indicating musical sounds by letters and other signs instead of by notes.
Table : The upper flat surface of a diamond or other precious stone, the sides of which are cut in angles.
Tablecloth : A cloth for covering a table, especially one with which a table is covered before the dishes, etc., are set on for meals.
Tabling : The letting of one timber into another by alternate scores or projections, as in shipbuilding.
Tabouret : A seat without arms or back, cushioned and stuffed: a high stool; -- so called from its resemblance to a drum.
Tabulating : of Tabulate
Tachometer : An instrument for measuring the velocity of the blood; a haematachometer.
Tacking : of Tack
Tackling : Furniture of the masts and yards of a vessel, as cordage, sails, etc.
Tactless : Destitute of tact.
Taenioidea : The division of cestode worms which comprises the tapeworms. See Tapeworm.
Tag : To join; to fasten; to attach.
Taguicati : The white-lipped peccary.
Tail : The bottom or lower portion of a member or part, as a slate or tile.
Tailless : Having no tail.
Tailzie : An entailment or deed whereby the legal course of succession is cut off, and an arbitrary one substituted.
Taira : Same as Tayra.
Take : In a somewhat passive sense, to receive; to bear; to endure; to acknowledge; to accept.
Taking : The act of gaining possession; a seizing; seizure; apprehension.
Taleful : Full of stories.
Talisman : Hence, something that produces extraordinary effects, esp. in averting or repelling evil; an amulet; a charm; as, a talisman to avert diseases.
Tall : High in stature; having a considerable, or an unusual, extension upward; long and comparatively slender; having the diameter or lateral extent small in proportion to the height; as, a tall person, tree, or mast.
Tallwood : Firewood cut into billets of a certain length.
Talma : A kind of large cape, or short, full cloak, forming part of the dress of ladies.
Talus : A sloping heap of fragments of rock lying at the foot of a precipice.
Tambour : To embroider on a tambour.
Tamil : Of or pertaining to the Tamils, or to their language.
Tampered : of Tamper
Tan : The bark of the oak, and some other trees, bruised and broken by a mill, for tanning hides; -- so called both before and after it has been used. Called also tan bark.
Tang : The part of a knife, fork, file, or other small instrument, which is inserted into the handle.
Tanghinia : The ordeal tree. See under Ordeal.
Tanier : An aroid plant (Caladium sagittaefolium), the leaves of which are boiled and eaten in the West Indies.
Tannin : Same as Tannic acid, under Tannic.
Tantamount : To be tantamount or equivalent; to amount.
Tap : A tool for forming an internal screw, as in a nut, consisting of a hardened steel male screw grooved longitudinally so as to have cutting edges.
Tapestries : of Tapestry
Taplash : Bad small beer; also, the refuse or dregs of liquor.
Taranis : A Celtic divinity, regarded as the evil principle, but confounded by the Romans with Jupiter.
Tarditation : Tardiness.
Targe : A shield or target.
Tarlatan : A kind of thin, transparent muslin, used for dresses.
Tarras : See Trass.
Tarsalia : of Tarsale
Tarsus : A plate of dense connective tissue or cartilage in the eyelid of man and many animals; -- called also tarsal cartilage, and tarsal plate.
Tartarian : The name of some kinds of cherries, as the Black Tartarian, or the White Tartarian.
Tartramide : An acid amide derivative of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Task : Business; employment; undertaking; labor.
Tasseled : of Tassel
Taste : A particular sensation excited by the application of a substance to the tongue; the quality or savor of any substance as perceived by means of the tongue; flavor; as, the taste of an orange or an apple; a bitter taste; an acid taste; a sweet taste.
Tasty : Being in conformity to the principles of good taste; elegant; as, tasty furniture; a tasty dress.
Tattled : of Tattle
Taunt : Very high or tall; as, a ship with taunt masts.
Tauromachian : A bullfighter.
Tautomeric : Relating to, or characterized by, tautomerism.
Tawdrily : In a tawdry manner.
Taxing : of Tax
Taxidermist : A person skilled in taxidermy.
Tea : To take or drink tea.
Teagle : A hoisting apparatus; an elevator; a crane; a lift.
Tear : A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland, and diffused between the eye and the eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion. Ordinarily the secretion passes through the lachrymal duct into the nose, but when it is increased by emotion or other causes, it overflows the lids.
Tear-thumb : A name given to several species of plants of the genus Polygonum, having angular stems beset with minute reflexed prickles.
Teaseling : The cutting and gathering of teasels; the use of teasels.
Technic : The method of performance in any art; technical skill; artistic execution; technique.
Tectibranch : One of the Tectibranchiata. Also used adjectively.
Te : "An ancient and celebrated Christian hymn, of uncertain authorship, but often ascribed to St. Ambrose; -- so called from the first words ""Te Deum laudamus."" It forms part of the daily matins of the Roman Catholic breviary, and is sung on all occasions of thanksgiving. In its English form, commencing with words, ""We praise thee, O God,"" it forms a part of the regular morning service of the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal Church in America."
Teem : To produce; to bring forth.
Teetered : of Teeter
Tegmen : The inner layer of the coating of a seed, usually thin and delicate; the endopleura.
Teinoscope : An instrument formed by combining prisms so as to correct the chromatic aberration of the light while linear dimensions of objects seen through the prisms are increased or diminished; -- called also prism telescope.
Telegraphy : The science or art of constructing, or of communicating by means of, telegraphs; as, submarine telegraphy.
Telephone : An instrument for reproducing sounds, especially articulate speech, at a distance.
Telescopy : The art or practice of using or making telescopes.
Tell : To give an account; to make report.
Tellural : Of or pertaining to the earth.
Telotrocha : An annelid larva having telotrochal bands of cilia.
Temper : To bring to a proper degree of hardness; as, to temper iron or steel.
Temperament : A system of compromises in the tuning of organs, pianofortes, and the like, whereby the tones generated with the vibrations of a ground tone are mutually modified and in part canceled, until their number reduced to the actual practicable scale of twelve tones to the octave. This scale, although in so far artificial, is yet closely suggestive of its origin in nature, and this system of tuning, although not mathematically true, yet satisfies the ear, while it has the convenience that the same twelve fixed tones answer for every key or scale, C/ becoming identical with D/, and so on.
Temperer : One who, or that which, tempers; specifically, a machine in which lime, cement, stone, etc., are mixed with water.
Temple : Hence, among Christians, an edifice erected as a place of public worship; a church.
Temporarily : In a temporary manner; for a time.
Tempting : of Tempt
Ten : One more than nine; twice five.
Tenacy : Tenaciousness; obstinacy.
Tend : To accompany as an assistant or protector; to care for the wants of; to look after; to watch; to guard; as, shepherds tend their flocks.
Tender : The thing offered; especially, money offered in payment of an obligation.
Tenderness : The quality or state of being tender (in any sense of the adjective).
Tenebrose : Characterized by darkness or gloom; tenebrous.
Tenne : A tincture, rarely employed, which is considered as an orange color or bright brown. It is represented by diagonal lines from sinister to dexter, crossed by vertical lines.
Ten-pounder : A large oceanic fish (Elops saurus) found in the tropical parts of all the oceans. It is used chiefly for bait.
Tensor : A muscle that stretches a part, or renders it tense.
Tentaculata : A division of Ctenophora including those which have two long tentacles.
Tentered : of Tenter
Tentiginous : Stiff; stretched; strained.
Tenuity : Refinement; delicacy.
Tephrosia : A genus of leguminous shrubby plants and herbs, mostly found in tropical countries, a few herbaceous species being North American. The foliage is often ashy-pubescent, whence the name.
Terbium : A rare metallic element, of uncertain identification, supposed to exist in certain minerals, as gadolinite and samarskite, with other rare ytterbium earth. Symbol Tr or Tb. Atomic weight 150.
Terebrae : of Terebra
Terete : Cylindrical and slightly tapering; columnar, as some stems of plants.
Term : The time for which anything lasts; any limited time; as, a term of five years; the term of life.
Termagant : An imaginary being supposed by the Christians to be a Mohammedan deity or false god. He is represented in the ancient moralities, farces, and puppet shows as extremely vociferous and tumultous.
Terminate : Hence, to put the finishing touch to; to bring to completion; to perfect.
Terminology : The doctrine of terms; a theory of terms or appellations; a treatise on terms.
Ternaries : of Ternary
Terracing : of Terrace
Terrestre : Terrestrial; earthly.
Terrific : Causing terror; adapted to excite great fear or dread; terrible; as, a terrific form; a terrific sight.
Territory : In the United States, a portion of the country not included within the limits of any State, and not yet admitted as a State into the Union, but organized with a separate legislature, under a Territorial governor and other officers appointed by the President and Senate of the United States. In Canada, a similarly organized portion of the country not yet formed into a Province.
Tertiary : Being of the third formation, order, or rank; third; as, a tertiary use of a word.
Tessellated : Marked like a checkerboard; as, a tessellated leaf.
Test : A witness.
Testamentary : Bequeathed by will; given by testament.
Testicle : One of the essential male genital glands which secrete the semen.
Testimonial : Relating to, or containing, testimony.
Testudinate : Alt. of Testudinated
Tetartohedral : Having one fourth the number of planes which are requisite to complete symmetry.
Tetra- : A combining form or prefix signifying four, as in tetrabasic, tetrapetalous.
Tetradactylous : Having, or characterized by, four digits to the foot or hand.
Tetragynia : A Linnaean order of plants having four styles.
Tetramorph : The union of the four attributes of the Evangelists in one figure, which is represented as winged, and standing on winged fiery wheels, the wings being covered with eyes. The representations of it are evidently suggested by the vision of Ezekiel (ch. i.)
Tetrarchate : A tetrarchy.
Tetravalence : The quality or state of being tetravalent; quadrivalence.
Tettering : of Tetter
Tewed : of Tew
Text-book : A book with wide spaces between the lines, to give room for notes.
Textuist : A textualist; a textman.
Thalamocoele : The cavity or ventricle of the thalamencephalon; the third ventricle.
Thalline : An artificial alkaloid of the quinoline series, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C10H13NO, whose salts are valuable as antipyretics; -- so called from the green color produced in its solution by certain oxidizing agents.
Thane : A dignitary under the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England. Of these there were two orders, the king's thanes, who attended the kings in their courts and held lands immediately of them, and the ordinary thanes, who were lords of manors and who had particular jurisdiction within their limits. After the Conquest, this title was disused, and baron took its place.
Thar : A goatlike animal (Capra Jemlaica) native of the Himalayas. It has small, flattened horns, curved directly backward. The hair of the neck, shoulders, and chest of the male is very long, reaching to the knees. Called also serow, and imo.
Thatching : The act or art of covering buildings with thatch; so as to keep out rain, snow, etc.
Thawy : Liquefying by heat after having been frozen; thawing; melting.
Theatin : Alt. of Theatine
Thecaphore : See Basigynium.
Theine : See Caffeine. Called also theina.
Then : Soon afterward, or immediately; next; afterward.
Theochristic : Anointed by God.
Theological : Of or pertaining to theology, or the science of God and of divine things; as, a theological treatise.
Theophanic : Of or pertaining to a theopany; appearing to man, as a god.
Theoretic : Alt. of Theoretical
Theosoph : Alt. of Theosopher
There : To or into that place; thither.
Therefrom : From this or that.
Therewithal : Over and above; besides; moreover.
Thermo- : A combining form from Gr. qe`rmh heat, qermo`s hot, warm; as in thermochemistry, thermodynamic.
Thermolyze : To subject to thermolysis; to dissociate by heat.
Thermotics : The science of heat.
Thespian : Of or pertaining to Thespis; hence, relating to the drama; dramatic; as, the Thespian art.
They : The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed.
Thick : Frequently; fast; quick.
Thickly : In a thick manner; deeply; closely.
Thieved : of Thieve
Thimbleberry : A kind of black raspberry (Rubus occidentalis), common in America.
Thin : To make thin (in any of the senses of the adjective).
Think : To conceive; to imagine.
Thionine : An artificial red or violet dyestuff consisting of a complex sulphur derivative of certain aromatic diamines, and obtained as a dark crystalline powder; -- called also phenylene violet.
Thirdly : In the third place.
Thirteen : The number greater by one than twelve; the sum of ten and three; thirteen units or objects.
Thistly : Fig.: Resembling a thistle or thistles; sharp; pricking.
Thomaean : Alt. of Thomean
Thoracoplasty : A remodeling or reshaping of the thorax; especially, the operation of removing the ribs, so as to obliterate the pleural cavity in cases of empyema.
Thornbird : A small South American bird (Anumbius anumbii) allied to the ovenbirds of the genus Furnarius). It builds a very large and complex nest of twigs and thorns in a bush or tree.
Thoroughfare : A passing or going through; passage.
Thou : The second personal pronoun, in the singular number, denoting the person addressed; thyself; the pronoun which is used in addressing persons in the solemn or poetical style.
Thousand : Consisting of ten hundred; being ten times one hundred.
Thrall : To enslave.
Thrashing : a. & n. from Thrash, v.
Threadbareness : The state of being threadbare.
Threat : The expression of an intention to inflict evil or injury on another; the declaration of an evil, loss, or pain to come; menace; threatening; denunciation.
Three-handed : Said of games or contests where three persons play against each other, or two against one; as, a three-handed game of cards.
Three-way : Connected with, or serving to connect, three channels or pipes; as, a three-way cock or valve.
Thretteen : Thirteen.
Thriftiness : The quality or state of being thrifty; thrift.
Throng : of Thring
Throat : A contracted portion of a vessel, or of a passage way; as, the throat of a pitcher or vase.
Throe : Extreme pain; violent pang; anguish; agony; especially, one of the pangs of travail in childbirth, or purturition.
Thronging : of Throng
Throttle : To breathe hard, as when nearly suffocated.
Thrown : of Throw
Throw : The extreme movement given to a sliding or vibrating reciprocating piece by a cam, crank, eccentric, or the like; travel; stroke; as, the throw of a slide valve. Also, frequently, the length of the radius of a crank, or the eccentricity of an eccentric; as, the throw of the crank of a steam engine is equal to half the stroke of the piston.
Thrum : To insert short pieces of rope-yarn or spun yarn in; as, to thrum a piece of canvas, or a mat, thus making a rough or tufted surface.
Thrust : To make a push; to attack with a pointed weapon; as, a fencer thrusts at his antagonist.
Thule : The name given by ancient geographers to the northernmost part of the habitable world. According to some, this land was Norway, according to others, Iceland, or more probably Mainland, the largest of the Shetland islands; hence, the Latin phrase ultima Thule, farthest Thule.
Thump : A blow or knock, as with something blunt or heavy; a heavy fall.
Thunderbolt : Vehement threatening or censure; especially, ecclesiastical denunciation; fulmination.
Thunderstruck : of Thunderstrike
Thurl : To cut through; to pierce.
Thwart : Fig.: Perverse; crossgrained.
Thymate : A compound of thymol analogous to a salt; as, sodium thymate.
Thyrsoidal : Having somewhat the form of a thyrsus.
Tibia : The fourth joint of the leg of an insect. See Illust. under Coleoptera, and under Hexapoda.
Tichorrhine : A fossil rhinoceros with a vertical bony medial septum supporting the nose; the hairy rhinoceros.
Ticket : A tradesman's bill or account.
Tickle-footed : Uncertain; inconstant; slippery.
Tidde : imp. of Tide, v. i.
Tidife : The blue titmouse.
Tie : A knot; a fastening.
Tier : A chold's apron covering the upper part of the body, and tied with tape or cord; a pinafore.
Tiffing : of Tiff
Tigerish : Like a tiger; tigrish.
Tightness : The quality or condition of being tight.
Tile : A draintile.
Till : A money drawer in a shop or store.
Tiller : To put forth new shoots from the root, or round the bottom of the original stalk; as, wheat or rye tillers; some spread plants by tillering.
Tilt : To cover with a tilt, or awning.
Tilt-up : Same as Tip-up.
Timbered : Built; formed; contrived.
Time : The duration of one's life; the hours and days which a person has at his disposal.
Timekeeper : One who gives the time for the departure of conveyances.
Timeserving : An obsequious compliance with the spirit of the times, or the humors of those in power, which implies a surrender of one's independence, and sometimes of one's integrity.
Timpani : of Timpano
Tincture : A solution (commonly colored) of medicinal substance in alcohol, usually more or less diluted; spirit containing medicinal substances in solution.
Tineid : Same as Tinean.
Tink : To make a sharp, shrill noise; to tinkle.
Tinkled : of Tinkle
Tinny : Pertaining to, abounding with, or resembling, tin.
Tintamar : A hideous or confused noise; an uproar.
Tip : To bestow a gift, or douceur, upon; to give a present to; as, to tip a servant.
Tippler : One who keeps a tippling-house.
Tipula : Any one of many species of long-legged dipterous insects belonging to Tipula and allied genera. They have long and slender bodies. See Crane fly, under Crane.
Tireless : Untiring.
Tisic : Consumption; phthisis. See Phthisis.
Titaniferous : Containing or affording titanium; as, titaniferous magnetite.
Tithing : A number or company of ten householders who, dwelling near each other, were sureties or frankpledges to the king for the good behavior of each other; a decennary.
Title : The inscription in the beginning of a book, usually containing the subject of the work, the author's and publisher's names, the date, etc.
Titmice : of Titmouse
Tittle-tattling : The act or habit of parting idly or gossiping.
To : The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from.
Toadish : Like a toad.
Toaster : One who toasts.
To-break : To break completely; to break in pieces.
Toddy : A juice drawn from various kinds of palms in the East Indies; or, a spirituous liquor procured from it by fermentation.
Toforn : Before.
Togider : Alt. of Togidres
Toise : An old measure of length in France, containing six French feet, or about 6.3946 French feet.
Tolbooth : See Tollbooth.
Toll : To draw; to entice; to allure. See Tole.
Toller : One who tolls a bell.
Toluole : Same as Toluene.
Tomb : A monument erected to inclose the body and preserve the name and memory of the dead.
Tomfoolery : Folly; trifling.
Ton : pl. of Toe.
Tone : Tenor; character; spirit; drift; as, the tone of his remarks was commendatory.
Tongue : A language; the whole sum of words used by a particular nation; as, the English tongue.
Tongue : To join means of a tongue and grove; as, to tongue boards together.
Tonic : "Of or relating to tones or sounds; specifically (Phon.), applied to, or distingshing, a speech sound made with tone unmixed and undimmed by obstruction, such sounds, namely, the vowels and diphthongs, being so called by Dr. James Rush (1833) "" from their forming the purest and most plastic material of intonation."""
Tonometer : An instrument for determining the rate of vibrations in tones.
Tonsured : Having the tonsure; shaven; shorn; clipped; hence, bald.
Tool-rest : the part that supports a tool-post or a tool.
Tooth : An angular or prominence on any edge; as, a tooth on the scale of a fish, or on a leaf of a plant
Toothleted : Having a toothlet or toothlets; as, a toothleted leaf.
Top : Top-boots.
Top-block : A large ironbound block strapped with a hook, and, when used, hung to an eyebolt in the cap, -- used in swaying and lowering the topmast.
Topful : Full to the top, ore brim; brimfull.
Topic : An external local application or remedy, as a plaster, a blister, etc.
Topology : The art of, or method for, assisting the memory by associating the thing or subject to be remembered with some place.
Top-shell : Any one of numerous species of marine top-shaped shells of the genus Trochus, or family Trochidae.
Torch : A light or luminary formed of some combustible substance, as of resinous wood; a large candle or flambeau, or a lamp giving a large, flaring flame.
Toreutic : In relief; pertaining to sculpture in relief, especially of metal; also, pertaining to chasing such as surface ornamentation in metal.
Tormentor : One who, or that which, torments; one who inflicts penal anguish or tortures.
Torpedo : A kind of shell or cartridge buried in earth, to be exploded by electricity or by stepping on it.
Torquate : Collared; having a torques, or distinct colored ring around the neck.
Torrid : Parched; dried with heat; as, a torrid plain or desert.
Tort : Any civil wrong or injury; a wrongful act (not involving a breach of contract) for which an action will lie; a form of action, in some parts of the United States, for a wrong or injury.
Tortrix : A genus of tropical short-tailed snakes, which are not venomous. One species (Tortrix scytalae) is handsomely banded with black, and is sometimes worn alive by the natives of Brazil for a necklace.
Torturous : Involving, or pertaining to, torture.
Tose : To tease, or comb, as wool.
Tossing : A process which consists in washing ores by violent agitation in water, in order to separate the lighter or earhy particles; -- called also tozing, and treloobing, in Cornwall.
Tote : To carry or bear; as, to tote a child over a stream; -- a colloquial word of the Southern States, and used esp. by negroes.
Tottery : Trembling or vaccilating, as if about to fall; unsteady; shaking.
Touch : To affect the senses or the sensibility of; to move; to melt; to soften.
Touch : A stroke; as, a touch of raillery; a satiric touch; hence, animadversion; censure; reproof.
Touching : Affecting; moving; pathetic; as, a touching tale.
Toughen : To grow or make tough, or tougher.
Tourbillion : An ornamental firework which turns round, when in the air, so as to form a scroll of fire.
Touser : One who touses.
Towall : A towel.
Tower : A mass of building standing alone and insulated, usually higher than its diameter, but when of great size not always of that proportion.
Town : Any number or collection of houses to which belongs a regular market, and which is not a city or the see of a bishop.
Townsman : A selectman, in New England. See Selectman.
Toxiphobia : An insane or greatly exaggerated dread of poisons.
Toyingly : In a toying manner.
Trace : A mark, impression, or visible appearance of anything left when the thing itself no longer exists; remains; token; vestige.
Trachea : One of the large cells in woody tissue which have spiral, annular, or other markings, and are connected longitudinally so as to form continuous ducts.
Tracheocele : Goiter.
Track : Course; way; as, the track of a comet.
Tract : Track; trace.
Traction : The adhesive friction of a wheel on a rail, a rope on a pulley, or the like.
Trading : of Trade
Trades-unionist : Alt. of Trade-unionist
Traditionaries : of Traditionary
Traducible : Capable of being derived or propagated.
Trafficable : Capable of being disposed of in traffic; marketable.
Tragi-comi-pastoral : Partaking of the nature of, or combining, tragedy, comedy, and pastoral poetry.
Trail : That part of the stock of a gun carriage which rests on the ground when the piece is unlimbered. See Illust. of Gun carriage, under Gun.
Train : The tail of a bird.
Trais : Alt. of Trays
Traject : A trajectory.
Tram : A silk thread formed of two or more threads twisted together, used especially for the weft, or cross threads, of the best quality of velvets and silk goods.
Tramontane : One living beyond the mountains; hence, a foreigner; a stranger.
Trampler : One who tramples; one who treads down; as, a trampler on nature's law.
Tranquilized : of Tranquillize
Transaction : An adjustment of a dispute between parties by mutual agreement.
Transcendence : Alt. of Transcendency
Transcolate : To cause to pass through a sieve or colander; to strain, as through a sieve.
Transduction : The act of conveying over.
Transfer : A pathological process by virtue of which a unilateral morbid condition on being abolished on one side of the body makes its appearance in the corresponding region upon the other side.
Transfixion : The act of transfixing, or the state of being transfixed, or pierced.
Transformer : One who, or that which, transforms. Specif. (Elec.), an apparatus for producing from a given electrical current another current of different voltage.
Transgress : Hence, to overpass, as any prescribed as the /imit of duty; to break or violate, as a law, civil or moral.
Transire : A customhouse clearance for a coasting vessel; a permit.
Translatable : Capable of being translated, or rendered into another language.
Translator : One who translates; esp., one who renders into another language; one who expresses the sense of words in one language by equivalent words in another.
Transmeation : The act of transmeating; a passing through or beyond.
Transmit : To suffer to pass through; as, glass transmits light; metals transmit, or conduct, electricity.
Transnature : To transfer or transform the nature of.
Transpicuous : Transparent; pervious to the sight.
Transplanted : of Transplant
Transportable : Capable of being transported.
Transpose : To change the key of.
Transubstantiator : One who maintains the doctrine of transubstantiation.
Transverse : The longer, or transverse, axis of an ellipse.
Trap : The game of trapball.
Trapezate : Having the form of a trapezium; trapeziform.
Trapper : One who traps animals; one who makes a business of trapping animals for their furs.
Trashily : In a trashy manner.
Travailous : Causing travail; laborious.
Traveler : A traveling crane. See under Crane.
Traversed : of Traverse
Travestied : of Travesty
Trays : See Trais.
Tread : To beat or press with the feet; as, to tread a path; to tread land when too light; a well-trodden path.
Tread-softly : Spurge nettle. See under Nettle.
Treasury : That department of a government which has charge of the finances.
Treatably : In a treatable manner.
Treble : To make thrice as much; to make threefold.
Tree : Wood; timber.
Treget : Guile; trickery.
Tremella : A genus of gelatinous fungi found in moist grounds.
Trench : To encroach; to intrench.
Trended : of Trend
Trepang : Any one of several species of large holothurians, some of which are dried and extensively used as food in China; -- called also beche de mer, sea cucumber, and sea slug.
Trespass : To commit any offense, or to do any act that injures or annoys another; to violate any rule of rectitude, to the injury of another; hence, in a moral sense, to transgress voluntarily any divine law or command; to violate any known rule of duty; to sin; -- often followed by against.
Trestlework : A viaduct, pier, scaffold, or the like, resting on trestles connected together.
Triable : Liable to undergo a judicial examination; properly coming under the cognizance of a court; as, a cause may be triable before one court which is not triable in another.
Triality : Three united; state of being three.
Triangulated : of Triangulate
Tribe : A number of species or genera having certain structural characteristics in common; as, a tribe of plants; a tribe of animals.
Tribune : Anciently, a bench or elevated place, from which speeches were delivered; in France, a kind of pulpit in the hall of the legislative assembly, where a member stands while making an address; any place occupied by a public orator.
Tribute : To pay as tribute.
Trichinosis : The disease produced by the presence of trichinae in the muscles and intestinal track. It is marked by fever, muscular pains, and symptoms resembling those of typhoid fever, and is frequently fatal.
Trichord : An instrument, as a lyre or harp, having three strings.
Tricking : of Trick
Triclinate : Triclinic.
Tricuspid : Of or pertaining to the tricuspid valves; as, tricuspid obstruction.
Tridentiferous : Bearing a trident.
Trierarch : At Athens, one who (singly, or jointly with other citizens) had to fit out a trireme for the public service.
Trifle : To spend in vanity; to fritter away; to waste; as, to trifle away money.
Trigamist : One who has been married three times; also, one who has three husbands or three wives at the same time.
Trigon : Trine, an aspect of two planets distant 120 degrees from each other.
Trigynous : Having three pistils or styles; of or pertaining to the Trigynia.
Trilithons : of Trilithon
Trilobita : An extinct order of arthropods comprising the trilobites.
Trim : The lighter woodwork in the interior of a building; especially, that used around openings, generally in the form of a molded architrave, to protect the plastering at those points.
Trimmer : One who trims, arranges, fits, or ornaments.
Trine : The aspect of planets distant from each other 120 degrees, or one third of the zodiac; trigon.
Trinket : A three-cornered sail formerly carried on a ship's foremast, probably on a lateen yard.
Trioctile : An aspect of two planets with regard to the earth when they are three octants, or three eighths of a circle, that is, 135 degrees, distant from each other.
Trip : To pull (a yard) into a perpendicular position for lowering it.
Tripartite : Made between three parties; as, a tripartite treaty.
Triphane : Spodumene.
Triplet : Three children or offspring born at one birth.
Tripoline : Of or pertaining to tripoli, the mineral.
Triptych : A writing tablet in three parts, two of which fold over on the middle part.
Trisect : To cut or divide into three equal parts.
Tristearate : Tristearin.
Tritheistic : Alt. of Tritheistical
Triturate : To rub, grind, bruise, or thrash.
Triumphal : A token of victory.
Trivalent : Having a valence of three; capable of being combined with, substituted for, or compared with, three atoms of hydrogen; -- said of triad atoms or radicals; thus, nitrogen is trivalent in ammonia.
Triweekly : Occurring or appearing three times a week; thriceweekly; as, a triweekly newspaper.
Trochilics : The science of rotary motion, or of wheel work.
Trochoid : Top-shaped; having a flat base and conical spire; -- said of certain shells.
Trogon : Any one of numerous species of beautiful tropical birds belonging to the family Trogonidae. They are noted for the brilliant colors and the resplendent luster of their plumage.
Troll : To take part in trolling a song.
Trompil : An aperture in a tromp.
Trooper : A soldier in a body of cavalry; a cavalryman; also, the horse of a cavalryman.
Trophy : Any evidence or memorial of victory or conquest; as, every redeemed soul is a trophy of grace.
Trot : To proceed by a certain gait peculiar to quadrupeds; to ride or drive at a trot. See Trot, n.
Troubling : of Trouble
Troupe : A company or troop, especially the company pf performers in a play or an opera.
Trowel : A tool used for smoothing a mold.
Trubtall : A short, squat woman.
Truck : Exchange of commodities; barter.
Truculent : Cruel; destructive; ruthless.
Trueness : The quality of being true; reality; genuineness; faithfulness; sincerity; exactness; truth.
Trump : To blow a trumpet.
Trumpet : To sound loudly, or with a tone like a trumpet; to utter a trumplike cry.
Truncate : Appearing as if cut off at the tip; as, a truncate leaf or feather.
Trundled : of Trundle
Trunk : A large pipe forming the piston rod of a steam engine, of sufficient diameter to allow one end of the connecting rod to be attached to the crank, and the other end to pass within the pipe directly to the piston, thus making the engine more compact.
Truss : The rope or iron used to keep the center of a yard to the mast.
Trust : Held in trust; as, trust property; trustmoney.
Trustful : Worthy of trust; faithful; trusty; trustworthy.
Truth-lover : One who loves the truth.
Try : A screen, or sieve, for grain.
Tsaritsa : The title of the empress of Russia. See Czarina.
Tubbing : The forming of a tub; also, collectively, materials for tubs.
Tubercle : A small knoblike prominence or excrescence, whether natural or morbid; as, a tubercle on a plant; a tubercle on a bone; the tubercles appearing on the body in leprosy.
Tuberosity : An obtuse or knoblike prominence; a protuberance.
Tubipore : Any species of the genus Tubipora.
Tubulidentate : Having teeth traversed by canals; -- said of certain edentates.
Tuck : A small net used for taking fish from a larger one; -- called also tuck-net.
Tuet : The lapwing.
Tufty : Growing in tufts or clusters.
Tuitionary : Of or pertaining to tuition.
Tumble : To turn over; to turn or throw about, as for examination or search; to roll or move in a rough, coarse, or unceremonious manner; to throw down or headlong; to precipitate; -- sometimes with over, about, etc.; as, to tumble books or papers.
Tumbril : A cart or carriage with two wheels, which accompanies troops or artillery, to convey the tools of pioneers, cartridges, and the like.
Tump : To form a mass of earth or a hillock about; as, to tump teasel.
Tumultuation : Irregular or disorderly movement; commotion; as, the tumultuation of the parts of a fluid.
Tunable : Capable of being tuned, or made harmonious; hence, harmonious; musical; tuneful.
Tuner : One who tunes; especially, one whose occupation is to tune musical instruments.
Tunicate : Alt. of Tunicated
Tunnel : To form into a tunnel, or funnel, or to form like a tunnel; as, to tunnel fibrous plants into nests.
Turanians : A group of races or tribes inhabiting Asia and closely related to the Mongols.
Turbidness : The quality or state of being turbid; muddiness; foulness.
Turbo : Any one of numerous marine gastropods of the genus Turbo or family Turbinidae, usually having a turbinate shell, pearly on the inside, and a calcareous operculum.
Turfs : of Turf
Turgesced : of Turgesce
Turkeis : Turkish.
Turmeric : The root or rootstock of the Curcuma longa. It is externally grayish, but internally of a deep, lively yellow or saffron color, and has a slight aromatic smell, and a bitterish, slightly acrid taste. It is used for a dye, a medicine, a condiment, and a chemical test.
Turn : To move round; to have a circular motion; to revolve entirely, repeatedly, or partially; to change position, so as to face differently; to whirl or wheel round; as, a wheel turns on its axis; a spindle turns on a pivot; a man turns on his heel.
Turn : Form; cast; shape; manner; fashion; -- used in a literal or figurative sense; hence, form of expression; mode of signifying; as, the turn of thought; a man of a sprightly turn in conversation.
Turney : Tourney.
Turn-out : The aggregate number of persons who have come out, as from their houses, for a special purpose.
Turnsole : The euphorbiaceous plant Chrozophora tinctoria.
Turquois : A hydrous phosphate of alumina containing a little copper; calaite. It has a blue, or bluish green, color, and usually occurs in reniform masses with a botryoidal surface.
Turtledove : Any one of several species of pigeons more or less resembling the true turtledoves, as the American mourning dove (see under Dove), and the Australian turtledove (Stictopelia cuneata).
Tusk-shell : See 2d Tusk, n., 2.
Tutele : Tutelage.
Tutorship : The office, duty, or care of a tutor; guardianship; tutelage.
Twagger : A lamb.
Twayblade : Any one of several orchidaceous plants which have only two leaves, as the species of Listera and of Liparis.
Twelfth : An interval comprising an octave and a fifth.
Twenties : of Twenty
Twifallow : To plow, or fallow, a second time (land that has been once fallowed).
Twilight : Imperfectly illuminated; shaded; obscure.
Twin : To be born at the same birth.
Twinged : of Twinge
Twinkling : The act of one who, or of that which, twinkles; a quick movement of the eye; a wink; a twinkle.
Twirl : A twist; a convolution.
Twist : A little twisted roll of tobacco.
Twitch : The act of twitching; a pull with a jerk; a short, sudden, quick pull; as, a twitch by the sleeve.
Twittingly : In a twitting manner; with upbraiding.
Two-lipped : Divided in such a manner as to resemble the two lips when the mouth is more or less open; bilabiate.
Tyer : One who ties, or unites.
Tympanic : The tympanic bone.
Tympanum : The space within an arch, and above a lintel or a subordinate arch, spanning the opening below the arch.
Type : Such letters or characters, in general, or the whole quantity of them used in printing, spoken of collectively; any number or mass of such letters or characters, however disposed.
Typhos : Typhus.
Typolite : A stone or fossil which has on it impressions or figures of plants and animals.
Tyrant : An absolute ruler; a sovereign unrestrained by law or constitution; a usurper of sovereignty.
Tythe : See Tithe.
Ubiquitist : Same as Ubiquist.
Ugliness : The quality or state of being ugly.
Ulcerate : To be formed into an ulcer; to become ulcerous.
Ulmate : A salt of ulmic acid.
Ulteriorly : More distantly or remotely.
Ultra : Going beyond others, or beyond due limit; extreme; fanatical; uncompromising; as, an ultra reformer; ultra measures.
Ululant : Howling; wailing.
Umber : A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors, obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides of iron and manganese. It is commonly heated or burned before being used, and is then called burnt umber; when not heated, it is called raw umber. See Burnt umber, below.
Umbilicus : Either one of the two apertures in the calamus of a feather.
Umbrage : Shadowy resemblance; shadow.
Umbrine : See Umbra, 2.
Un- : An inseparable prefix, or particle, signifying not; in-; non-. In- is prefixed mostly to words of Latin origin, or else to words formed by Latin suffixes; un- is of much wider application, and is attached at will to almost any adjective, or participle used adjectively, or adverb, from which it may be desired to form a corresponding negative adjective or adverb, and is also, but less freely, prefixed to nouns. Un- sometimes has merely an intensive force; as in unmerciless, unremorseless.
Unaccomplishment : The state of being unaccomplished.
Unadvised : Not prudent; not discreet; ill advised.
Unanimity : The quality or state of being unanimous.
Unapproved : Not approved.
Unassured : Not assured; not bold or confident.
Unawares : Without design or preparation; suddenly; without premeditation, unexpectedly.
Unbarricadoed : Not obstructed by barricades; open; as, unbarricadoed streets.
Unbeing : Not existing.
Unbending : Unyielding in nature; unchangeable; fixed; -- applied to abstract ideas; as, unbending truths.
Unbinding : of Unbind
Unbone : To twist about, as if boneless.
Unbowelling : of Unbowel
Unbuckle : To loose the buckles of; to unfasten; as, to unbuckle a shoe.
Uncap : To remove a cap or cover from.
Uncenter : Alt. of Uncentre
Unchariot : To throw out of a chariot.
Unchristianness : The quality or state of being unchristian.
Uncircumstandtial : Not circumstantial; not entering into minute particulars.
Unclinch : To cause to be no longer clinched; to open; as, to unclinch the fist.
Unco : A strange thing or person.
Uncomprehensive : Incomprehensible.
Unconformity : Want of conformity; incongruity; inconsistency.
Unconstant : Not constant; inconstant; fickle; changeable.
Uncorrigible : Incorrigible; not capable of correction.
Uncover : To take off the hat or cap; to bare the head in token of respect.
Unctuous : Of the nature or quality of an unguent or ointment; fatty; oily; greasy.
Uncustomed : Uncustomable; also, not having paid duty or customs.
Undecennial : Occurring or observed every eleventh year; belonging to, or continuing, a period of eleven years; undecennary; as, an undecennial festival.
Undeniable : Unobjectionable; unquestionably excellent; as, a person of undeniable connections.
Underbearer : One who supports or sustains; especially, at a funeral, one of those who bear the copse, as distinguished from a bearer, or pallbearer, who helps to hold up the pall.
Undercliff : A subordinate cliff on a shore, consisting of material that has fallen from the higher cliff above.
Underditch : To dig an underground ditches in, so as to drain the surface; to underdrain; as, to underditch a field or a farm.
Underfong : To insnare; to circumvent.
Undergore : To gore underneath.
Underhanded : Underhand; clandestine.
Underlay : To raise or support by something laid under; as, to underlay a cut, plate, or the like, for printing. See Underlay, n., 2.
Underlip : The lower lip.
Underneath : Under; beneath; below.
Underpitch : To fill underneath; to stuff.
Underreckon : To reckon below what is right or proper; to underrate.
Undershot : Moved by water passing beneath; -- said of a water wheel, and opposed to overshot; as, an undershot wheel.
Underspore : To raise with a spar, or piece of wood, used as a lever.
Understandingly : In an understanding manner; intelligibly; with full knowledge or comprehension; intelligently; as, to vote upon a question understandingly; to act or judge understandingly.
Undertake : Hence, to guarantee; to promise; to affirm.
Undertide : Alt. of Undertime
Underwitted : Weak in intellect; half-witted; silly.
Underwritten : of Underwrite
Undigenous : Generated by water.
Undisposedness : Indisposition; disinclination.
Undouble : To unfold, or render single.
Undulate : Same as Undulated.
Undumpish : To relieve from the dumps.
Uneath : Not easily; hardly; scarcely.
Unequal : Not equal; not matched; not of the same size, length, breadth, quantity, strength, talents, acquirements, age, station, or the like; as, the fingers are of unequal length; peers and commoners are unequal in rank.
Unethes : With difficulty; scarcely. See Uneath.
Unexpertly : In an unexpert manner.
Unfavorable : Not favorable; not propitious; adverse; contrary; discouraging.
Unfit : To make unsuitable or incompetent; to deprive of the strength, skill, or proper qualities for anything; to disable; to incapacitate; to disqualify; as, sickness unfits a man for labor; sin unfits us for the society of holy beings.
Unforgettable : Not forgettable; enduring in memory.
Unfret : To smooth after being fretted.
Ungenerously : In an ungenerous manner.
Ungot : Alt. of Ungotten
Unguentary : Like an unguent, or partaking of its qualities.
Ungula : Same as Unguis, 3.
Unhappied : Made unhappy.
Unheard : Not known to fame; not illustrious or celebrated; obscure.
Unhold : To cease to hold; to unhand; to release.
Uniat : Alt. of Uniate
Unicorn : The kamichi; -- called also unicorn bird.
Uniform : A dress of a particular style or fashion worn by persons in the same service or order by means of which they have a distinctive appearance; as, the uniform of the artillery, of the police, of the Freemasons, etc.
Unijugate : Having but one pair of leaflets; -- said of a pinnate leaf.
Uninteressed : Uninterested; unaffected.
Uniovulate : Containing but one ovule.
Unisexual : Having one sex only, as plants which have the male and female flowers on separate individuals, or animals in which the sexes are in separate individuals; di/cious; -- distinguished from bisexual, or hermaphrodite. See Di/cious.
Unitarian : Of or pertaining to Unitarians, or their doctrines.
Unitively : In a unitive manner.
Universal : Constituting or considered as a whole; total; entire; whole; as, the universal world.
Universities : of University
Unjust : Acting contrary to the standard of right; not animated or controlled by justice; false; dishonest; as, an unjust man or judge.
Unkindly : Unfavorable; annoying; malignant.
Unlade : To take the load from; to take out the cargo of; as, to unlade a ship or a wagon.
Unlay : To untwist; as, to unlay a rope.
Unlimber : To detach the limber from; as, to unlimber a gun.
Unlocated : Not surveyed, or designated by marks, limits, or boundaries, as appropriated to some individual, company, or corporation; as, unlocated lands.
Unlust : Listlessness; disinclination.
Unmartyr : To degrade from the rank of a martyr.
Unmingle : To separate, as things mixed.
Unmuffle : To take a covering from, as the face; to uncover.
Unnethe : Alt. of Unnethes
Unordinate : Disorderly; irregular; inordinate.
Unparalleled : Having no parallel, or equal; unequaled; unmatched.
Unpeered : Having no peer; unequaled; unparalleled.
Unpinion : To loose from pinions or manacles; to free from restraint.
Unpleat : To remove the plaits of; to smooth.
Unpossibility : Impossibility.
Unprince : To deprive of the character or authority of a prince; to divest of principality of sovereignty.
Unprudential : Imprudent.
Unravel : To become unraveled, in any sense.
Unrecuring : Incurable.
Unreputable : Disreputable.
Unrig : To strip of rigging; as, to unrig a ship.
Un-Romanized : Not subjected to the principles or usages of the Roman Catholic Church.
Unsad : Unsteady; fickle.
Unscapable : Not be escaped; inevitable.
Unseconded : Not seconded; not supported, aided, or assisted; as, the motion was unseconded; the attempt was unseconded.
Unseparable : Inseparable.
Unsheathe : To deprive of a sheath; to draw from the sheath or scabbard, as a sword.
Unsight : Doing or done without sight; not seeing or examining.
Unsling : To take off the slings of, as a yard, a cask, or the like; to release from the slings.
Unspar : To take the spars, stakes, or bars from.
Unstate : To deprive of state or dignity.
Unstring : To loosen the string or strings of; as, to unstring a harp or a bow.
Unsupportable : Insupportable; unendurable.
Untangibility : Intangibility.
Unthinking : Not thinking; not heedful; thoughtless; inconsiderate; as, unthinking youth.
Untie : To resolve; to unfold; to clear.
Untold : Not numbered or counted; as, untold money.
Untreasured : Deprived of treasure.
Untuck : To unfold or undo, as a tuck; to release from a tuck or fold.
Unvalued : Not valued; not appraised; hence, not considered; disregarded; valueless; as, an unvalued estate.
Unware : Happening unexpectedly; unforeseen.
Unweighed : Not weighed; not pondered or considered; as, an unweighed statement.
Unwish : To wish not to be; to destroy by wishing.
Unwrap : To open or undo, as what is wrapped or folded.
Up : To or in a state of completion; completely; wholly; quite; as, in the phrases to eat up; to drink up; to burn up; to sum up; etc.; to shut up the eyes or the mouth; to sew up a rent.
Upbraid : To object or urge as a matter of reproach; to cast up; -- with to before the person.
Upcoil : To coil up; to make into a coil, or to be made into a coil.
Uphand : Lifted by the hand, or by both hands; as, the uphand sledge.
Upholster : To furnish (rooms, carriages, bedsteads, chairs, etc.) with hangings, coverings, cushions, etc.; to adorn with furnishings in cloth, velvet, silk, etc.; as, to upholster a couch; to upholster a room with curtains.
Up-line : A line or track leading from the provinces toward the metropolis or a principal terminus; the track upon which up-trains run. See Up-train.
Upright : In an erect position or posture; perpendicular; vertical, or nearly vertical; pointing upward; as, an upright tree.
Uproot : To root up; to tear up by the roots, or as if by the roots; to remove utterly; to eradicate; to extirpate.
Upsidown : See Upsodown.
Upsterte : imp. & p. p. of Upstart.
Uptie : To tie up.
Upyat : imp. of Upgive.
Uranic : Pertaining to, resembling, or containing uranium; specifically, designating those compounds in which uranium has a valence relatively higher than in uranous compounds.
Uranoscopy : Observation of the heavens or heavenly bodies.
Urbicolous : Of or pertaining to a city; urban.
Urechitoxin : A poisonous glucoside found accompanying urechitin, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.
Urge : To press; to push; to drive; to impel; to force onward.
Urinary : A urinarium; also, a urinal.
Urn : A tea urn. See under Tea.
Urodelian : Of or pertaining to the Urodela.
Urosome : The abdomen, or post-abdomen, of arthropods.
Ursuline : One of an order of nuns founded by St. Angela Merici, at Brescia, in Italy, about the year 1537, and so called from St. Ursula, under whose protection it was placed. The order was introduced into Canada as early as 1639, and into the United States in 1727. The members are devoted entirely to education.
Usage : Experience.
Use : To make use of; to convert to one's service; to avail one's self of; to employ; to put a purpose; as, to use a plow; to use a chair; to use time; to use flour for food; to use water for irrigation.
Ushership : The office of an usher; usherdom.
Usurarious : Alt. of Usurary
Usurpingly : In a usurping manner.
Utilitarian : One who holds the doctrine of utilitarianism.
Utopia : Hence, any place or state of ideal perfection.
Utter : Situated on the outside, or extreme limit; remote from the center; outer.
Uttermore : Further; outer; utter.
Uxoricide : The murder of a wife by her husband.
Vacated : of Vacate
Vaccine : any preparation used to render an organism immune to some disease, by inducing or increasing the natural immunity mechanisms. Prior to 1995, such preparations usually contained killed organisms of the type for which immunity was desired, and sometimes used live organisms having attenuated virulence. since that date, preparations containing only specific antigenic portions of the pathogenic organism are also used, some of which are prepared by genetic engineering techniques.
Vacuity : Space unfilled or unoccupied, or occupied with an invisible fluid only; emptiness; void; vacuum.
Vagabond : Floating about without any certain direction; driven to and fro.
Vagina : The basal expansion of certain leaves, which inwraps the stem; a sheath.
Vagrant : Wandering from place to place without any settled habitation; as, a vagrant beggar.
Vail : To yield or recede; to give place; to show respect by yielding, uncovering, or the like.
Valance : Hanging drapery for a bed, couch, window, or the like, especially that which hangs around a bedstead, from the bed to the floor.
Valentine : A letter containing professions of love, or a missive of a sentimental, comic, or burlesque character, sent on St. Valentine's Day.
Valetudinarianism : The condition of a valetudinarian; a state of feeble health; infirmity.
Validness : The quality or state of being valid.
Vallums : of Vallum
Value : Esteem; regard.
Valve : A lid, plug, or cover, applied to an aperture so that by its movement, as by swinging, lifting and falling, sliding, turning, or the like, it will open or close the aperture to permit or prevent passage, as of a fluid.
Vamp : Any piece added to an old thing to give it a new appearance. See Vamp, v. t.
Van : A close railway car for baggage. See the Note under Car, 2.
Vandyke : fit or furnish with a Vandyke; to form with points or scallops like a Vandyke.
Vanishing : of Vanish
Vanquishable : That may be vanquished.
Vapor : A medicinal agent designed for administration in the form of inhaled vapor.
Vaporish : Hypochondriacal; affected by hysterics; splenetic; peevish; humorsome.
Varangian : One of the Northmen who founded a dynasty in Russia in the 9th century; also, one of the Northmen composing, at a later date, the imperial bodyguard at Constantinople.
Variant : Changeable; changing; fickle.
Variegate : To diversify in external appearance; to mark with different colors; to dapple; to streak; as, to variegate a floor with marble of different colors.
Variolite : A kind of diorite or diabase containing imbedded whitish spherules, which give the rock a spotted appearance.
Varletry : The rabble; the crowd; the mob.
Vary : To embellish; to change fancifully; to present under new aspects, as of form, key, measure, etc. See Variation, 4.
Vasculum : A tin box, commonly cylindrical or flattened, used in collecting plants.
Vassalage : Political servitude; dependence; subjection; slavery; as, the Greeks were held in vassalage by the Turks.
Vasum : A genus including several species of large marine gastropods having massive pyriform shells, with conspicuous folds on the columella.
Vaticine : A prediction; a vaticination.
Vaulted : Covered with an arch, or vault.
Vaut : To vault; to leap.
Veered : of Veer
Vegetarian : Of or pertaining to vegetarianism; as, a vegetarian diet.
Vehemency : Vehemence.
Veil : Same as Velum, 3.
Veined : Full of veins; streaked; variegated; as, veined marble.
Velleity : The lowest degree of desire; imperfect or incomplete volition.
Vela : of Velum
Velvetleaf : A name given to several plants which have soft, velvety leaves, as the Abutilon Avicennae, the Cissampelos Pareira, and the Lavatera arborea, and even the common mullein.
Vending : of Vend
Veneer : To overlay or plate with a thin layer of wood or other material for outer finish or decoration; as, to veneer a piece of furniture with mahogany. Used also figuratively.
Venerating : of Venerate
Veney : A bout; a thrust; a venew.
Venom : To infect with venom; to envenom; to poison.
Vented : of Vent
Ventilate : To provide with a vent, or escape, for air, gas, etc.; as, to ventilate a mold, or a water-wheel bucket.
Ventral : Of or pertaining to that surface of a carpel, petal, etc., which faces toward the center of a flower.
Ventriloquous : Of or pertaining to a ventriloquist or ventriloquism.
Ventuse : See Ventouse.
Veratrine : A poisonous alkaloid obtained from the root hellebore (Veratrum) and from sabadilla seeds as a white crystalline powder, having an acrid, burning taste. It is sometimes used externally, as in ointments, in the local treatment of neuralgia and rheumatism. Called also veratria, and veratrina.
Verbally : Word for word; verbatim.
Verd : Greenness; freshness.
Verditure : The faintest and palest green.
Verge : The spindle of a watch balance, especially one with pallets, as in the old vertical escapement. See under Escapement.
Verfication : The act of verifying, or the state of being verified; confirmation; authentication.
Verity : The quality or state of being true, or real; consonance of a statement, proposition, or other thing, with fact; truth; reality.
Vermiculate : Wormlike in shape; covered with wormlike elevations; marked with irregular fine lines of color, or with irregular wavy impressed lines like worm tracks; as, a vermiculate nut.
Vermilion : To color with vermilion, or as if with vermilion; to dye red; to cover with a delicate red.
Vernacularly : In a vernacular manner; in the vernacular.
Veronica : A genus scrophulariaceous plants; the speedwell. See Speedwell.
Versatility : The quality or state of being versatile; versatileness.
Versicolor : Alt. of Versicolored
Verst : A Russian measure of length containing 3,500 English feet.
Vertebrated : Contracted at intervals, so as to resemble the spine in animals.
Verticillaster : A whorl of flowers apparently of one cluster, but composed of two opposite axillary cymes, as in mint. See Illust. of Whorl.
Vervel : See Varvel.
Vesicle : A small cavity, nearly spherical in form, and usually of the size of a pea or smaller, such as are common in some volcanic rocks. They are produced by the liberation of watery vapor in the molten mass.
Vesperal : Vesper; evening.
Vesses : Alt. of Vessets
Vestal : A virgin; a woman pure and chaste; also, a nun.
Vestry : A room appendant to a church, in which sacerdotal vestments and sacred utensils are sometimes kept, and where meetings for worship or parish business are held; a sacristy; -- formerly called revestiary.
Veterinarian : One skilled in the diseases of cattle or domestic animals; a veterinary surgeon.
Vex : To to/s back and forth; to agitate; to disquiet.
Vexillum : A company of troops serving under one standard.
Vial : To put in a vial or vials.
Vibrate : To mark or measure by moving to and fro; as, a pendulum vibrating seconds.
Vibroscope : An instrument resembling the phenakistoscope.
Vice : The buffoon of the old English moralities, or moral dramas, having the name sometimes of one vice, sometimes of another, or of Vice itself; -- called also Iniquity.
Viceroy : The governor of a country or province who rules in the name of the sovereign with regal authority, as the king's substitute; as, the viceroy of India.
Vicissitude : Regular change or succession from one thing to another; alternation; mutual succession; interchange.
Victoria : A genus of aquatic plants named in honor of Queen Victoria. The Victoria regia is a native of Guiana and Brazil. Its large, spreading leaves are often over five feet in diameter, and have a rim from three to five inches high; its immense rose-white flowers sometimes attain a diameter of nearly two feet.
Victualer : One who keeps a house of entertainment; a tavern keeper; an innkeeper.
Vie : To stake a sum upon a hand of cards, as in the old game of gleek. See Revie.
View : To survey or examine mentally; to consider; as, to view the subject in all its aspects.
Vigil : A religious service performed in the evening preceding a feast.
Vigorous : Exhibiting strength, either of body or mind; powerful; strong; forcible; energetic; as, vigorous exertions; a vigorous prosecution of a war.
Villas : of Villa
Villanage : Baseness; infamy; villainy.
Villose : See Villous.
Vinagrous : Fig.: Unamiable; morose.
Vindicable : Capable of being vindicated.
Vineal : Of or pertaining to vines; containing vines.
Vinnewed : Moldy; musty.
Viola : A genus of polypetalous herbaceous plants, including all kinds of violets.
Violative : Violating, or tending to violate.
Violet-tip : A very handsome American butterfly (Polygonia interrogationis). Its wings are mottled with various shades of red and brown and have violet tips.
Viraginity : The qualities or characteristics of a virago.
Virgin : See Virgo.
Virgule : A comma.
Virtuality : The quality or state of being virtual.
Virtuosoship : The condition, pursuits, or occupation of a virtuoso.
Visaed : of Visa
Viscid : Sticking or adhering, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscous; glutinous; sticky; tenacious; clammy; as, turpentine, tar, gums, etc., are more or less viscid.
Viseed : of Vise
Visionary : Existing in imagination only; not real; fanciful; imaginary; having no solid foundation; as, visionary prospect; a visionary scheme or project.
Visitation : The object of a visit.
Vista : A view; especially, a view through or between intervening objects, as trees; a view or prospect through an avenue, or the like; hence, the trees or other objects that form the avenue.
Vitalizing : of Vitalize
Viticulturist : One engaged in viticulture.
Vitrifacture : The manufacture of glass and glassware.
Vitriolated : Changed into a vitriol or a sulphate, or subjected to the action of sulphuric acid or of a sulphate; as, vitriolated potash, i. e., potassium sulphate.
Vituperrious : Worthy of vituperation; shameful; disgraceful.
Viverra : A genus of carnivores which comprises the civets.
Viviparity : The quality or condition of being viviparous.
Vizierial : Of, pertaining to, or issued by, a vizier.
Vocalist : A singer, or vocal musician, as opposed to an instrumentalist.
Vociferant : Noisy; clamorous.
Voice : Opinion or choice expressed; judgment; a vote.
Void : Containing no immaterial quality; destitute of mind or soul.
Voider : A servant whose business is to void, or clear away, a table after a meal.
Volary : See Volery.
Volcanicity : Quality or state of being volcanic; volcanic power.
Volition : The act of willing or choosing; the act of forming a purpose; the exercise of the will.
Volow : To baptize; -- used in contempt by the Reformers.
Voltigeur : One of a picked company of irregular riflemen in each regiment of the French infantry.
Volumeter : An instrument for measuring the volumes of gases or liquids by introducing them into a vessel of known capacity.
Voluntary : One who advocates voluntaryism.
Volutation : A rolling of a body; a wallowing.
Vomiting : of Vomit
Voodooism : A degraded form of superstition and sorcery, said to include human sacrifices and cannibalism in some of its rites. It is prevalent among the negroes of Hayti, and to some extent in the United States, and is regarded as a relic of African barbarism.
Votary : One devoted, consecrated, or engaged by a vow or promise; hence, especially, one devoted, given, or addicted, to some particular service, worship, study, or state of life.
Vouch : To call; to summon.
Vouchsafement : The act of vouchsafing, or that which is vouchsafed; a gift or grant in condescension.
Voyage : Course; way.
Vulcanist : A volcanist.
Vulgarized : of Vulgarize
Vulpic : Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained from a lichen (Cetraria vulpina) as a yellow or red crystalline substance which on decomposition yields pulvinic acid.
W : the twenty-third letter of the English alphabet, is usually a consonant, but sometimes it is a vowel, forming the second element of certain diphthongs, as in few, how. It takes its written form and its name from the repetition of a V, this being the original form of the Roman capital letter which we call U. Etymologically it is most related to v and u. See V, and U. Some of the uneducated classes in England, especially in London, confuse w and v, substituting the one for the other, as weal for veal, and veal for weal; wine for vine, and vine for wine, etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 266-268.
Wadding : Any soft stuff of loose texture, used for stuffing or padding garments; esp., sheets of carded cotton prepared for the purpose.
Wadsetter : One who holds by a wadset.
Waft : A wave or current of wind.
Wage : To expose one's self to, as a risk; to incur, as a danger; to venture; to hazard.
Waggel : The young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus), formerly considered a distinct species.
Wagonage : Money paid for carriage or conveyance in wagon.
Wail : To choose; to select.
Wainscot : Any one of numerous species of European moths of the family Leucanidae.
Waister : A seaman, usually a green hand or a broken-down man, stationed in the waist of a vessel of war.
Waive : A woman put out of the protection of the law. See Waive, v. t., 3 (b), and the Note.
Wake : To put in motion or action; to arouse; to excite.
Waking : A watch; a watching.
Walk : To move or go on the feet for exercise or amusement; to take one's exercise; to ramble.
Walker : Any ambulatorial orthopterous insect, as a stick insect.
Wallaroo : Any one of several species of kangaroos of the genus Macropus, especially M. robustus, sometimes called the great wallaroo.
Wallop : To move quickly, but with great effort; to gallop.
Wallower : A lantern wheel; a trundle.
Wamble : Disturbance of the stomach; a feeling of nausea.
Wanderer : One who wanders; a rambler; one who roves; hence, one who deviates from duty.
Wanghee : The Chinese name of one or two species of bamboo, or jointed cane, of the genus Phyllostachys. The slender stems are much used for walking sticks.
Want : To feel need of; to wish or long for; to desire; to crave.
Wantonly : In a wanton manner; without regularity or restraint; loosely; sportively; gayly; playfully; recklessly; lasciviously.
Wappato : See Wapatoo.
Warble : A small, hard tumor which is produced on the back of a horse by the heat or pressure of the saddle in traveling.
Ward : One who, or that which, guards; garrison; defender; protector; means of guarding; defense; protection.
Wardcorps : Guardian; one set to watch over another.
Wardsman : A man who keeps ward; a guard.
Warehousing : The act of placing goods in a warehouse, or in a customhouse store.
Wark : Work; a building.
Warm : To communicate a moderate degree of heat to; to render warm; to supply or furnish heat to; as, a stove warms an apartment.
Warning : of Warn
Warp : To run off the reel into hauls to be tarred, as yarns.
Warragal : The dingo.
Warranter : One who warrants, gives authority, or legally empowers.
Warrie : See Warye.
Warye : To curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex.
Wash : A mixture of dunder, molasses, water, and scummings, used in the West Indies for distillation.
Washdish : Same as Washerwoman, 2.
Wash-off : Capable of being washed off; not permanent or durable; -- said of colors not fixed by steaming or otherwise.
Wassailer : One who drinks wassail; one who engages in festivity, especially in drinking; a reveler.
Wasteboard : See Washboard, 3.
Wastrel : Anything cast away as bad or useless, as imperfect bricks, china, etc.
Watchet : Pale or light blue.
Watering : of Water
Water : A battery nearly on a level with the water.
Water : Any one of numerous species of large, rapacious, aquatic, hemipterous insects belonging to Belostoma, Benacus, Zaitha, and other genera of the family Belostomatidae. Their hind legs are long and fringed, and act like oars. Some of these insects are of great size, being among the largest existing Hemiptera. Many of them come out of the water and fly about at night.
Water : A color ground with water and gum or other glutinous medium; a color the vehicle of which is water; -- so called in distinction from oil color.
Water : See Water chevrotain.
Waterfall : A certain kind of neck scarf.
Water : An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the depth or quantity of water, or for indicating the height of its surface, as in the boiler of a steam engine. See Gauge.
Waterie : The pied wagtail; -- so called because it frequents ponds.
Water : A blossom or plant of any species of the genus Nymphaea, distinguished for its large floating leaves and beautiful flowers. See Nymphaea.
Water : A mill whose machinery is moved by water; -- distinguished from a windmill, and a steam mill.
Water : The ruddy duck.
Water : A pore by which the water tubes of various invertebrates open externally.
Water : The muskrat.
Watershed : The whole region or extent of country which contributes to the supply of a river or lake.
Water : Any spider that habitually lives on or about the water, especially the large American species (Dolomedes lanceolatus) which runs rapidly on the surface of water; -- called also raft spider.
Water : The common cat-tail (Typha latifolia), the spike of which makes a good torch soaked in oil.
Water : An American aquatic plant (Dianthera Americana) with long willowlike leaves, and spikes of small purplish flowers.
Wattle : The trees from which the bark is obtained. See Savanna wattle, under Savanna.
Wave : To move one way and the other; to brandish.
Waver : To be unsettled in opinion; to vacillate; to be undetermined; to fluctuate; as, to water in judgment.
Waxing : of Wax
Waxen : Resembling wax; waxy; hence, soft; yielding.
Way : The longitudinal guides, or guiding surfaces, on the bed of a planer, lathe, or the like, along which a table or carriage moves.
Wayless : Having no road or path; pathless.
Wayz-goose : An annual feast of the persons employed in a printing office.
Weak : Lacking in elements of political strength; not wielding or having authority or energy; deficient in the resources that are essential to a ruler or nation; as, a weak monarch; a weak government or state.
Weak-minded : Having a weak mind, either naturally or by reason of disease; feebleminded; foolish; idiotic.
Wealthiness : The quality or state of being wealthy, or rich; richness; opulence.
Wear : To cause to go about, as a vessel, by putting the helm up, instead of alee as in tacking, so that the vessel's bow is turned away from, and her stern is presented to, the wind, and, as she turns still farther, her sails fill on the other side; to veer.
Weariless : Incapable of being wearied.
Weasel-faced : Having a thin, sharp face, like a weasel.
Weatherboard : That side of a vessel which is toward the wind; the windward side.
Weatherproof : Proof against rough weather.
Weazand : See Weasand.
Web : The membrane which unites the fingers or toes, either at their bases, as in man, or for a greater part of their length, as in many water birds and amphibians.
Webform : Any one of various species of moths whose gregarious larvae eat the leaves of trees, and construct a large web to which they retreat when not feeding.
Wedge : Anything in the form of a wedge, as a body of troops drawn up in such a form.
Wedlock : A wife; a married woman.
Weeder : One who, or that which, weeds, or frees from anything noxious.
Ween : To think; to imagine; to fancy.
Weeping : Pertaining to lamentation, or those who weep.
Weft : The woof of cloth; the threads that cross the warp from selvage to selvage; the thread carried by the shuttle in weaving.
Weigh : To bear heavily; to press hard.
Weight : A definite mass of iron, lead, brass, or other metal, to be used for ascertaining the weight of other bodies; as, an ounce weight.
Weird : To foretell the fate of; to predict; to destine to.
Welcomely : In a welcome manner.
Welfaring : Faring well; prosperous; thriving.
Well : An opening through the floors of a building, as for a staircase or an elevator; a wellhole.
Welldoer : One who does well; one who does good to another; a benefactor.
Well-natured : Good-natured; kind.
Welshmen : of Welshman
Welter : To roll, as the body of an animal; to tumble about, especially in anything foul or defiling; to wallow.
Wend : p. p. of Wene.
Went : Course; way; path; journey; direction.
Weroole : An Australian lorikeet (Ptilosclera versicolor) noted for the variety of its colors; -- called also varied lorikeet.
West : To turn or move toward the west; to veer from the north or south toward the west.
Westy : Dizzy; giddy.
Wex : To grow; to wax.
Whahoo : An American tree, the winged elm. (Ulmus alata).
Whanghee : See Wanghee.
Wharf : To place upon a wharf; to bring to a wharf.
What : Why? For what purpose? On what account?
Wheatworm : A small nematode worm (Anguillula tritici) which attacks the grains of wheat in the ear. It is found in wheat affected with smut, each of the diseased grains containing a large number of the minute young of the worm.
Wheel : To convey on wheels, or in a wheeled vehicle; as, to wheel a load of hay or wood.
Wheeling : Condition of a road or roads, which admits of passing on wheels; as, it is good wheeling, or bad wheeling.
Whelk : A papule; a pustule; acne.
When : While; whereas; although; -- used in the manner of a conjunction to introduce a dependent adverbial sentence or clause, having a causal, conditional, or adversative relation to the principal proposition; as, he chose to turn highwayman when he might have continued an honest man; he removed the tree when it was the best in the grounds.
Whereabouts : Concerning which; about which.
Whereof : Of which; of whom; formerly, also, with which; -- used relatively.
Wherret : A box on the ear.
Whew : A sound like a half-formed whistle, expressing astonishment, scorn, or dislike.
Whiffed : of Whiff
Whig : Acidulated whey, sometimes mixed with buttermilk and sweet herbs, used as a cooling beverage.
While : Until; till.
Whimper : To utter in alow, whining tone.
Whin : Woad-waxed.
Whinock : The small pig of a litter.
Whip : To move nimbly; to start or turn suddenly and do something; to whisk; as, he whipped around the corner.
Whipperin : A huntsman who keeps the hounds from wandering, and whips them in, if necessary, to the of chase.
Whipworm : A nematode worm (Trichocephalus dispar) often found parasitic in the human intestine. Its body is thickened posteriorly, but is very long and threadlike anteriorly.
Whirlbone : The patella, or kneepan.
Whisk : A kind of cape, forming part of a woman's dress.
Whiskeys : of Whisky
Whisper : To prompt secretly or cautiously; to inform privately.
Whistle : To form, utter, or modulate by whistling; as, to whistle a tune or an air.
White : Reflecting to the eye all the rays of the spectrum combined; not tinted with any of the proper colors or their mixtures; having the color of pure snow; snowy; -- the opposite of black or dark; as, white paper; a white skin.
Whitebelly : The American widgeon, or baldpate.
White-foot : A white mark on the foot of a horse, between the fetlock and the coffin.
Whitening : The act or process of making or becoming white.
Whitewashing : of Whitewash
Whiting : Any one of several species of North American marine sciaenoid food fishes belonging to genus Menticirrhus, especially M. Americanus, found from Maryland to Brazil, and M. littoralis, common from Virginia to Texas; -- called also silver whiting, and surf whiting.
Whitsunday : See the Note under Term, n., 12.
Whizzing : of Whiz
Wholesale : Extensive and indiscriminate; as, wholesale slaughter.
Whoot : To hoot.
Whorl : A volution, or turn, of the spire of a univalve shell.
Why : The reason or cause for which; that on account of which; on what account; as, I know not why he left town so suddenly; -- used as a compound relative.
Wicken : Same as Quicken tree.
Wide : Of large scope; comprehensive; liberal; broad; as, wide views; a wide understanding.
Wideness : The quality or state of being wide; breadth; width; great extent from side to side; as, the wideness of a room.
Widow-hunter : One who courts widows, seeking to marry one with a fortune.
Wierangle : Same as Wariangle.
Wigged : Having the head covered with a wig; wearing a wig.
Wild : Growing or produced without culture; growing or prepared without the aid and care of man; native; not cultivated; brought forth by unassisted nature or by animals not domesticated; as, wild parsnip, wild camomile, wild strawberry, wild honey.
Wilderness : Quality or state of being wild; wildness.
Wilk : See Whelk.
Willet : A large North American snipe (Symphemia semipalmata); -- called also pill-willet, will-willet, semipalmated tattler, or snipe, duck snipe, and stone curlew.
Willowish : Having the color of the willow; resembling the willow; willowy.
Wilt : Hence, to cause to languish; to depress or destroy the vigor and energy of.
Wimple : To lie in folds; also, to appear as if laid in folds or plaits; to ripple; to undulate.
Winch : A crank with a handle, for giving motion to a machine, a grindstone, etc.
Wind : Breath modulated by the respiratory and vocal organs, or by an instrument.
Windas : See 3d Windlass.
Windiness : Fullness of wind; flatulence.
Windmill : A mill operated by the power of the wind, usually by the action of the wind upon oblique vanes or sails which radiate from a horizontal shaft.
Windrowed : of Windrow
Wine : The effect of drinking wine in excess; intoxication.
Wing : Any membranaceous expansion, as that along the sides of certain stems, or of a fruit of the kind called samara.
Winged : Furnished with a leaflike appendage, as the fruit of the elm and the ash, or the stem in certain plants; alate.
Winking : of Wink
Winning : The act of obtaining something, as in a contest or by competition.
Winter : The season of the year in which the sun shines most obliquely upon any region; the coldest season of the year.
Winy : Having the taste or qualities of wine; vinous; as, grapes of a winy taste.
Wirche : To work
Wire-puller : One who pulls the wires, as of a puppet; hence, one who operates by secret means; an intriguer.
Wise : Way of being or acting; manner; mode; fashion.
Wisher : One who wishes or desires; one who expresses a wish.
Wisse : To show; to teach; to inform; to guide; to direct.
Witch : One who practices the black art, or magic; one regarded as possessing supernatural or magical power by compact with an evil spirit, esp. with the Devil; a sorcerer or sorceress; -- now applied chiefly or only to women, but formerly used of men as well.
Witcraft : Art or skill of the mind; contrivance; invention; wit.
Withal : With; -- put after its object, at the end of sentence or clause in which it stands.
Withering : of Wither
Withhold : To hold back; to restrain; to keep from action.
Withoutforth : Without; outside' outwardly. Cf. Withinforth.
Witness : One who is cognizant; a person who beholds, or otherwise has personal knowledge of, anything; as, an eyewitness; an earwitness.
Wittol : A man who knows his wife's infidelity and submits to it; a tame cuckold; -- so called because the cuckoo lays its eggs in the wittol's nest.
Wives : pl. of Wife.
Wode : Mad. See Wood, a.
Wold : A plain, or low hill; a country without wood, whether hilly or not.
Wolframite : Tungstate of iron and manganese, generally of a brownish or grayish black color, submetallic luster, and high specific gravity. It occurs in cleavable masses, and also crystallized. Called also wolfram.
Woman : To furnish with, or unite to, a woman.
Women : pl. of Woman.
Wonders : See Wondrous.
Wont : To be accustomed or habituated; to be used.
Woodbind : Woodbine.
Wooden : Made or consisting of wood; pertaining to, or resembling, wood; as, a wooden box; a wooden leg; a wooden wedding.
Woodman : One who cuts down trees; a woodcutter.
Woodward : An officer of the forest, whose duty it was to guard the woods.
Wool : A sort of pubescence, or a clothing of dense, curling hairs on the surface of certain plants.
Woolhead : The buffel duck.
Wopen : Wept.
Wordiness : The quality or state of being wordy, or abounding with words; verboseness.
Work : Performance of moral duties; righteous conduct.
Workaday : See Workyday.
Workless : Not carried out in practice; not exemplified in fact; as, workless faith.
World : In a more restricted sense, that part of the earth and its concerns which is known to any one, or contemplated by any one; a division of the globe, or of its inhabitants; human affairs as seen from a certain position, or from a given point of view; also, state of existence; scene of life and action; as, the Old World; the New World; the religious world; the Catholic world; the upper world; the future world; the heathen world.
Worm : Same as Vermes.
Wormhole : A burrow made by a worm.
Worrisome : Inclined to worry or fret; also, causing worry or annoyance.
Worser : Worse.
Worst : That which is most bad or evil; the most severe, pernicious, calamitous, or wicked state or degree.
Worthless : Destitute of worth; having no value, virtue, excellence, dignity, or the like; undeserving; valueless; useless; vile; mean; as, a worthless garment; a worthless ship; a worthless man or woman; a worthless magistrate.
Woulfe : A kind of wash bottle with two or three necks; -- so called after the inventor, Peter Woulfe, an English chemist.
Wowe : To woo.
Wrangle : To involve in a quarrel or dispute; to embroil.
Wrapper : Specifically, a loose outer garment; an article of dress intended to be wrapped round the person; as, a morning wrapper; a gentleman's wrapper.
Wreaking : of Wreak
Wreathe : To be intewoven or entwined; to twine together; as, a bower of wreathing trees.
Wreck : To work upon a wreck, as in saving property or lives, or in plundering.
Wrenched : of Wrench
Wrestler : One who wrestles; one who is skillful in wrestling.
Wright : One who is engaged in a mechanical or manufacturing business; an artificer; a workman; a manufacturer; a mechanic; esp., a worker in wood; -- now chiefly used in compounds, as in millwright, wheelwright, etc.
Wrinkle : A small ridge, prominence, or furrow formed by the shrinking or contraction of any smooth substance; a corrugation; a crease; a slight fold; as, wrinkle in the skin; a wrinkle in cloth.
Writative : Inclined to much writing; -- correlative to talkative.
Writhen : of Writhe
Wrong : Not fit or suitable to an end or object; not appropriate for an intended use; not according to rule; unsuitable; improper; incorrect; as, to hold a book with the wrong end uppermost; to take the wrong way.
Wrongless : Not wrong; void or free from wrong.
Wrying : of Wry
Wyclifite : Alt. of Wycliffite
Xanthelasma : See Xanthoma.
Xanthogen : Persulphocyanogen.
Xeme : An Arctic fork-tailed gull (Xema Sabinii).
Xerif : A shereef.
Xiphius : A genus of cetaceans having a long, pointed, bony beak, usually two tusklike teeth in the lower jaw, but no teeth in the upper jaw.
Xylitone : A yellow oil having a geraniumlike odor, produced as a side product in making phorone; -- called also xylite oil.
Xylophagan : Any species of Xylophaga.
Xyst : Alt. of Xystus
Yachting : Sailing for pleasure in a yacht.
Yamp : An umbelliferous plant (Carum Gairdneri); also, its small fleshy roots, which are eaten by the Indians from Idaho to California.
Yard : A branch; a twig.
Yarn : One of the threads of which the strands of a rope are composed.
Yaw : To rise in blisters, breaking in white froth, as cane juice in the clarifiers in sugar works.
Ybe : Been.
Year : Age, or old age; as, a man in years.
Yearth : The earth.
Yellow : A bright golden color, reflecting more light than any other except white; the color of that part of the spectrum which is between the orange and green.
Yellowness : The quality or state of being yellow; as, the yellowness of an orange.
Yellowwort : A European yellow-flowered, gentianaceous (Chlora perfoliata). The whole plant is intensely bitter, and is sometimes used as a tonic, and also in dyeing yellow.
Yeomanry : The position or rank of a yeoman.
Yest : See Yeast.
Yet : Up to the present time; thus far; hitherto; until now; -- and with the negative, not yet, not up to the present time; not as soon as now; as, Is it time to go? Not yet. See As yet, under As, conj.
Yghe : Eye.
Yieldance : The act of yielding; concession.
Ynow : Enough.
Yoke : A frame worn on the neck of an animal, as a cow, a pig, a goose, to prevent passage through a fence.
Yokelet : A small farm; -- so called as requiring but one yoke of oxen to till it.
York : The one of the three printed uses of England which was followed in the north. It was based on the Sarum use. See Use, n., 6.
Younker : A young person; a stripling; a yonker.
Youze : The cheetah.
Ytterbium : A rare element of the boron group, sometimes associated with yttrium or other related elements, as in euxenite and gadolinite. Symbol Yb; provisional atomic weight 173.2. Cf. Yttrium.
Yulan : A species of Magnolia (M. conspicua) with large white blossoms that open before the leaves. See the Note under Magnolia.
Zaimet : A district from which a Zaim draws his revenue.
Zantiot : A native or inhabitant of Zante, one of the Ionian Islands.
Zea : A genus of large grasses of which the Indian corn (Zea Mays) is the only species known. Its origin is not yet ascertained. See Maize.
Zebrine : Pertaining to, or resembling, the zebra.
Zenith : That point in the visible celestial hemisphere which is vertical to the spectator; the point of the heavens directly overhead; -- opposed to nadir.
Zesting : of Zest
Zif : The second month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding to our May.
Zincking : of Zinc
Zinco-polar : Electrically polarized like the surface of the zinc presented to the acid in a battery, which has zincous affinity.
Zircofluoride : A double fluoride of zirconium and hydrogen, or some other positive element or radical; as, zircofluoride of sodium.
Zoanthus : A genus of Actinaria, including numerous species, found mostly in tropical seas. The zooids or polyps resemble small, elongated actinias united together at their bases by fleshy stolons, and thus forming extensive groups. The tentacles are small and bright colored.
Zonae : of Zona
Zonule : A little zone, or girdle.
Zoogony : The doctrine of the formation of living beings.
Zoology : That part of biology which relates to the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct.
Zoophily : Love of animals.
Zootic : Containing the remains of organized bodies; -- said of rock or soil.
Zoutch : To stew, as flounders, eels, etc., with just enough or liquid to cover them.
Zygobranchia : A division of marine gastropods in which the gills are developed on both sides of the body and the renal organs are also paired. The abalone (Haliotis) and the keyhole limpet (Fissurella) are examples.
Zylonite : Celluloid.
Zymotic : Of, pertaining to, or caused by, fermentation.
